[{'id': '37005',
  'author': ['Ronald Simonar'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "Across two continents, three strangers uncover the oldest story on Earth and the best kept secret of all times.On a rainy day in late June 1991, Dr Wallenberg, a Swedish neurologist passes through customs at Kennedy Airport. He has come to take over the Directorship at Asgard Park, an old mental Institution in upstate New York. The young academic has no way of knowing that his new position is bait in a bigger game. He is about to uncover a misguided conspiracy run from the asylum. His predecessor at the helm, a man obsessed with Intelligent Design, is using vast resources 'to protect the chosen children'.",
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1332055290l/13385518.jpg',
  'isbn': '9197966711',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13385518-asgard-park',
  'page_count': '380',
  'rating': '3.95',
  'review_count': '8',
  'title': 'Asgard Park',
  'rating_count': '22',
  'sensitivity': ['murder', 'violence', 'death', 'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'slow',
  'buzzwords': ['popular',
   'underdog',
   'unique',
   'widow',
   'mythology',
   'complex',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'recommend',
   'poor',
   'compelling',
   'powerful',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'relate',
   'detailed',
   'gripping',
   'shocked',
   'chaotic',
   'widower',
   'interesting',
   'struggled',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'slow',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'twist',
   'invested',
   'vivid',
   'unpredictable',
   'mafia',
   'easy',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'lack',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'delighted',
   'dark',
   'dramatic',
   'beautiful',
   'groundbreaking',
   'challenging',
   'original',
   'unusual',
   'attention',
   'entertaining',
   'drama',
   'fake',
   'forward',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["Rating: 4.5/5.0 This unique story ties everything together, but calls for patience.  Read full review in the  2022 June issue of InD'tale Magazine.",
   'Story is divided into four parts listed as Book 1 thru 4. The first three books are character development. In Book #1 we meet Xo a widow living in Albania. Asgard Park is a sanitarium mental Institution in upstate New York.  In Book #2 Dr. Wallenberg, a wealthy Swedish neurologist can traveled to New York to take over managing Asgard Park a sanitarium in upstate New York Book #3 Burton Crane Book #4 all comes together This was a different read for me. I read   The Sanatorium  and liked it and thought this might be similar. Want to thank NetGalley and Eventhor Media for this audio eGalley. This file has been made available to me before publication in an early form for my honest opinion.  Audiobook Release Date was April 20, 2022',
   'The Kid I was looking for an audio book to listen to and the title caught my eye. I thought it would be some type of psychological thriller. It was a very different type book. It was a bit of crime, conspiracy with some mythological characteristics. It was an engaging read, however it was hard to follow. The story took place in Albania. It followed different characters XO a widow in Albania, Dr. Wallenberg, a psychiatrist, Burton Crane an agent working for the NSA or whomever gives his the best deal and the Kid.  The stories of the characters are told separately until the last book in which they come together and it becomes to make a bit of sense. Heimdal the watcher who settles social order among humans becomes prominent.  It was a bit of a hard read to understand and although it was an engaging read and the narrator had a pleasant voice it was difficult to grasp the concept of the book.  Thanks to Ronald Simonar for writing and narrating the story, to Publishdrive Eventhor Media for publishing the audio book and to NetGalley for allowing me to read and review a copy. All the words are my own. ',
   "A book in 4 parts that comes together at the end. Stories that are intricately and expertly plotted, seemingly separate, tie together in ways I wouldn't have thought to even look for. The premise is fantastically intriguing and I enjoyed getting a glimpse into daily life in various countries.   I found the sexist, and frankly creepy, character depictions difficult to get through in the beginning. It took a while for me to relate to the characters and become invested in the stories. This isn't a casual read and you need to pay close attention to really enjoy it. Though ultimately I'm glad I stuck it out,I can't recommend this to everyone. But for those with the patience I believe the payoff to be worth it.",
   "Recent widow Shequere Avxhiu is finding life in Tirana extremely difficult. The fall of communism in Albania should have launched the country into a new age of prosperity, but instead it seems to have exacerbated the crime and corruption that characterized the old regime. Things are particularly difficult for women, especially those whose families lack connections, which is why Shequere's best friend Rakipe has turned to prostitution. She works out of the Hotel Dajti, which is popular with visiting foreigners, and thinks that Shequere should follow her example. However, the only work Shequere is willing to do with foreigners is translation, and even that ends up landing her in a whole heap of trouble. Meanwhile, Birger Wallenberg is traveling from Stockholm to New York to begin his new role as Director of the Asgard Park Institute, a private asylum and treatment center for the criminally insane. During the plane journey, he has a vivid dream about a woman and her young daughter being beaten by thugs, and when he finally arrives at the institute, he finds that the dream might have a basis in reality. It's just the first of many shocks that are in store for him, particularly when it comes to the identity and mission of the institute's founder, Doctor Karl Leamas. For his part, Burton Crane, former NSA and MI6 agent and current NATO intelligence liaison officer, is hoping to quickly take down the German biker gang suspected of arms smuggling that he has spent months gathering intel on and make it back to London and his wife without too much delay. Of course, such things never go smoothly, especially not in the recently reunified Germany, and Crane soon comes to suspect that the whole sting operation is a set-up. Against his better judgment, he decides to unofficially investigate the matter further, which draws him into the orbit of powerful individuals and has the potential to expose a vast conspiracy stretching back across the centuries. Although they are largely unaware of it, the fates of these three disparate individuals are being controlled by a powerful entity with an earth-shattering agenda, and when destiny compels the three to meet during the course of Asgard Park: The Summer of 1991, the consequences will be staggering, both for themselves and for humanity. In crafting their complex and interweaving stories, Ronald Simonar has drawn heavily on Norse mythology, particularly that concerning Heimdallr, the watchman of the gods, so much so in fact that a little prior knowledge in this regard might prove helpful. But even if the references initially seem opaque, things concerning the watchman do become clearer as the novel progresses. Simonar has made an interestingly structural choice with Asgard Park, introducing the three main characters separately in the first three books of the novel before bringing them together in the fourth. While this allows tension to mount in the story and questions to develop regarding how everything will come together, it does lead to some degree of repetition and the need to remember certain things and characters that were not introduced as having importance. The main characters themselves are generally well developed and convincing, particularly Shequere and Crane, and overall Asgard Park is an exciting thriller punctuated with conspiracies, violence, otherworldliness, and even a hint of romance.",
   "This book starts off with book one where we meet XO she is an impoverished widow living in Albania. Book 2 we meet burger Wallenberg, He is a Swedish psychiatrist who is moving to America to run The Asgard Park sanitarium Book 3 is about Burton Crane, who works for basically whoever needs him NATO, the M I six, ET see then we come to book four where all their lives collide. This was a very good detailed and intriguing book. OK Asgard park it's a psychiatric asylum of sorts that really is a front for The people that protect the children of The god Helger AN God help anyone who tries to hurt these children or their mother. Little does Dr. Wallenburg know, But he is a child of the scarred an EXO is pregnant with one of the gods daughter, but unfortunately she is stuck in Albania where they believe she is responsible for the death of one German and the chaotic killing of a bunch of gangsters. So while she is in hiding in her friend who they called the kids Apartment, Dr. Wallenburg is looking for her at the DOJ where the kid works. The kid tells him secretly that that is her friend and she will get in touch and let him know. While he waits he gets conned into believing that EXO is that her mothers house a few kilometers away but what he doesn't know this is the Cigar-ini better known as a crooked police and it's taking him to a home where he will be drugged, kidnapped, robbed and locked up in a bunker in the middle of who knows where.… I know the summary I gave like most summaries I give isn't that great, but how can I put the greatness of this book in a simple summary. It was so good it has to do with a mythological god, let me just say this if you love the underdog winning then you really should read this book because the underdog wins in such a big way. I loved it and can't say enough about it has paranormal aspects and I thought it was put together brilliantly. This is my second book by Ronald seminar and after reading his first one all I saw was he wrote this one and I got it. I am a new huge fan of his and can't wait to read more about this author. I was given this book by Nageli and the author and I am leaving this review totally voluntarily. please forgive any grammar or punctuation error as I am blind and dictate my review but all opinions are definitely my own. This book truly is an awesome read!",
   "A truly dark tale about a Nordic god named Heimðallr. “Heimðallr, the god who was born of nine mothers (the waves of the sea), is said to have been the father of all the castes of humankind.” (thank you Wiki!!). It wouldn't hurt to read a bit about him before you start this book. It makes things a little clearer. Birger Wallenberg is taking over the Asgard Park Institute. - an institution for the mentally ill. Originally from Copenhagen; he has been selected from many applicants to head the Research Department. He already has great plans to use his position to prove some of his own theories. One thing they forgot to mention: the retiring Director, Dr. Karl Leamas, lives there. He built it so why not? Why not is an easy answer. The man is everywhere, into everything and possibly (probably) a tad deluded. He keeps speaking of Heimdallr and encourages Birger to open his senses to him. He says Birger is the chosen one to carry on Heimdallr's work in the world. Meanwhile, across the ocean in Albania, two young girls of opposite dispositions are arguing about sex. One is experienced, a whore even and the other is pure, chaste and relies on her brother to keep her safe. The Kid (aka Rakipe) is world-wise, loud, brash and lonely. Shequere Avhiu a widow whose husband hung himself from a sewer pipe. Her brother, Spiro, deals in any and everything dealable and does pretty well for himself. The back and forth in this book between a world of poverty and an institution of insanity keeps you hopping. I have to admit that it wasn't something I was thrilled with but overall it was a good tale. Not what I thought it would be about at all and that's all I'm gonna say about it. I'm sure it will be perfect for most folks.",
   'I use the Kelley&Hall review as my own:  The gods are afoot in Asgard Park, which is a multi-layered, complex literary thriller that searches for patterns and meaning in a chaotic universe while remaining grounded in basic human interactions and conflicts. Simonar, who resides in Sweden, joins a distinguished group of authors like John Banville (The Infinities), Hari Kunzru (Gods Without Men), and Neil Gaiman (American Gods) who journey deep into myth to create lesser gods. An American NSA officer inquires about a missing file on STASI (East German secret police) collaborators; the Swedish SÄPO (security police) investigates the bestial murder of a wealthy businesswomen; the defunct Albanian Sigurimi (secret police) still terrorize the deprived citizens of the rubble-strewn land of dead dictator Horxha and search for a beautiful young widow; and the most powerful man in Germany builds a secret army. And what secret power makes the Italian Mafia, the FBI, the CIA, and the NSA bow before it?  All these elements interrelate in this viscerally gripping and intellectually engaging mystery thriller. With brilliantly original Asgard Park, Ronald Simonar has taken his place within the pantheon of groundbreaking post-modernist writers.',
   "One of the best books I have read in this season. While reading you will transported from Albania, to USA, Sweden and Germany. Wallenberg is attracted to the Asgard Park, a mental institution, with the promise of being able to manage a research team. Soon it turned out to be bait, the former director tell him that he have to accept Heimdallr, who is the watchman, which monitor his creation, the humankind. Meanwhile in Albania, Avxhiu, a beautiful widower, is going to have his life to turn completely upside down. Burton, a middle age agent, is following the trail of a powerful aristocrat, which he suspect that is involved in a huge conspiracy. It is definitively a very good page turner, which combines mythology, intelligent design in a gripping thriller, that once you start you can put down. I'm very happy to have received this book trough the first reads program and I'm looking forward to read further works from this author.",
   "This was a Goodreads Firstreads giveaway win. I received this book along with a note from the author about how it might be a difficult read but if I stuck with it, it would be worth it. I will agree that it was a difficult read in that it started a little slow. I also found I had to pay close attention to the story line in order to keep up with what was going on. It is definitely not a beach read or a fluff title that you could plow through in a day. I wouldn't recommend trying to read it where there are alot of distractions (children, noise, phone ringing, etc.).  That said... I really enjoyed this story. The plot and characters were complex but engaging. I did have to do a little Nordic mytholgy research just so I grasped the concept of Hemdallr but I really like mythology so that didn't bother me. I loved that it didn't really seem to follow the formula of the typical spy thriller books. Excellent book!",
   "I was delighted to receive this free as a Goodreads first read. This is a complex but compelling story, a thriller full of twists and turns. It is a book I thoroughly enjoyed reading, which has a plot I'm not sure I fully understood. Of minds and bodies invaded by a God of good or of evil? I'm not sure! Of men who are sane or insane? Again I'm not sure! But it is definitely a book to savour. There is certainly a deal of violence, there is a type of romance, and there is suspense and disbelief in abundance. It is certainly a book to concentrate upon, to read slowly and to digest. I needed to halt at times to translate certain words, to investigate the history and geography of Albania and the legend of the Watchman Heimðallr, none of which I had encountered before. A clear winner by an excellent writer.",
   'This is a very good book that you need to read. Once you pick it up it is hard to put down. A very good spy thriller with a twist. If you are a nonbeliever or a believer it makes you think at the end “Is God real?”. Rating:4 Heat Rating: mild Reviewed by: Susan',
   "An Entertaining Mystery Told in Multiple POVs 4.25 out of 5 stars Getting introduced to books I wouldn't have picked up otherwise might be my favorite part about being a book blogger. Sometimes it's a story that is excellent that you would have skipped because of a cover or because of something else. In this case, it was a newer author (one I'd never heard of) along with just not knowing much about the story at all until I dove into it a bit. Doing that really opened up an interesting and unique world that Simonar created. Specifically, his character development in Asgard Park is probably the best part of this story. It followed three different people throughout. Early on I wasn't sure how it was going to come together at all. And as the pieces started to fall into place I was shocked at the similarities and different things that kept “coming up” or clicking together. Simonar should be darn proud of this book. It's one of those books that without realizing it, I was more than halfway through it. Then again I was almost done with it. The flow and just the way that I had to find out what was happening page after page (or in my case, minute after minute) was awesome and really had me chomping at the bit to figure out what was going to happen next (or what happened and how it tied together). Overall, I thought that Asgard Park was a good story that might be overlooked by a lot of people. The cover, while it makes sense when reading it didn't really draw my eye. Lots of text and at first glance, I couldn't even tell it was a building. The only other constructive criticism I would give Simonar is that his description of the audiobook is way too short, especially compared to the description of the Kindle edition on Amazon. I think changing that up would really make an already great book stand out in a crowded market. But I say these things because I truly enjoyed the book and want others to read and enjoy it.",
   "I find it difficult to write a review that really captures the essence of Asgard Park. I loved the unique setting in Albania, and the overall premise was entirely unique and creative. I thought the characters were well developed and interesting, and the narrator at 1.5x speed was easy to understand with a pleasant voice. At times I did find the overall story a bit difficult to follow... perhaps because I chose the audiobook and can get a little distracted by my concurrent activities (in my case cooking and cleaning). With the multitude of characters and eventually converging storylines, In retrospect, I would have preferred a physical hardcopy book to flip back and forth to see the connections better. This is definitely a story you need to concentrate on to really get.  I went into the book thinking I was going to be reading a phycological or medical thriller which it turned out not to be. I wouldn't necessarily pick a conspiracy/espionage thriller, so perhaps I am not the writer's intended audience. I did do a lot of side reading on Albanian history/politics and Norse mythology, so I appreciate the book pushing me to learn as I listened along. I would put this in a  challenging reads  category, but those who persist will be rewarded with new knowledge and an interesting novel conspiracy theory to chew on.  Thank you #NetGalley, PublishDrive and Eventhor Media for the opportunity to read and review this ARC.",
   "This book wasn't what I thought it would be. It was like reading 3 separate books that come together as one. It's divided into books 1 through 4. You meet different characters and learn their stories in books 1 through 3. Then it all comes together in book 4. I listened to the audio book and had a hard time staying interested and following along. I had to start over a couple of times. I didn't find the book to be engaging",
   "This is a solid read. It's been out since 2011 but has garnered few reviews, and probably little in sales. That's too bad since it's well written. I hope it finds an audience. Thanks very for the free review copy!!",
   "I will dispense with the usual regurgitation of the publisher's description of Asgard Park by Ronald Simonar. I received an audio copy of this book through NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. While I struggled at first to understand where this story was going, by halfway through Part 2, it began to come together for me. The book is divided into four parts, the first three of which develop the central characters and their relationship to one another. The fourth section gives us a clearer idea of Heimdall. I would suggest a reader brush up on their Norse mythology and the concept of Intelligent Design to better understand the development of the story. By Part 3, we clearly can see the  thriller  aspect developing and I became fully engaged with the story. I found the primary characters to be well developed and engaging The prose flowed beautifully and the narration did not detract. The narrator did not attempt to change voices, kept a calm pace and did not overdramatize.  I would heartily recommend this book.",
   "I will dispense with the usual regurgitation of the publisher's description of Asgard Park by Ronald Simonar. I received an audio copy of this book through NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. While I struggled at first to understand where this story was going, by halfway through Part 2, it began to come together for me. The book is divided into four parts, the first three of which develop the central characters and their relationship to one another. The fourth section gives us a clearer idea of Heimdall. I would suggest a reader brush up on their Norse mythology and the concept of Intelligent Design to better understand the development of the story. By Part 3, we clearly can see the  thriller  aspect developing and I became fully engaged with the story. I found the primary characters to be well developed and engaging The prose flowed beautifully and the narration did not detract. The narrator did not attempt to change voices, kept a calm pace and did not overdramatize.  I would heartily recommend this book.",
   "Asgard Park: The Summer of 1991, by Ronald Simonar, is a mythic mystery thriller.  The opening of this novel is a bit disorienting, moving between entirely unrelated storylines for a while. One begins with a story about poor citizens in Albania, who use whatever skills they have — sex and beauty, a little English, underworld connections — to try to improve their lives. The novel hints at corruption and secret agendas, but doesn't really reveal anything before the story jumps to a woman trying to protect her child. Again, readers have tantalizing hints about secret identities and hidden connections, but the novel moves on before revealing anything. Then the story moves to Asgard Park an upscale mental asylum in upstate New York, where Dr. Birger Wallenberg has just become the director, a prestigious career move for him. In fact, the position is almost too good. This is when readers will start to pick up names and references to Norse myth. The previous director of the asylum, Dr. Karl Leamas, is strangely focused on Heimdallr and Norse myth, and believes Dr. Wallenberg has been called to carry on Heimdallr's plans on earth. Landing this prestigious new job at the Asgard Park asylum is just part of the plan… Without revealing too much of the plot, Asgard Park is an unpredictable story, with tension and surprises.  The alternating storylines are somewhat confusing at first, bringing readers into drama and tension, and then dropping that to pick up a new storyline. Several times, I wasn't sure if I was supposed to recognize characters or if we were being introduced to new characters in the middle of the action. With state surveillance, organized crime, and secret societies all making up key parts of the story, there were characters with aliases and fake backstories, which added to my confusion in the beginning. Just as I thought I knew where things were going, the narrative shifts to different characters in a new situation.  Stay with it, though, and readers will begin to pick up patterns. The ongoing themes of secrecy and alternate identities point to a mythic world just slightly hidden from our own world. If we accept that the Stasi or the mob are operating just out of sight, then what else is happening just out of sight? What other patterns and societies could we find, if we knew where to look? Asgard Park opens into a suspenseful espionage thriller with supernatural, mythological elements. (Readers don't really need a background in Norse myth to follow the story, it's all explained in the novel.) There's a real payoff for all the mystery in the second half of the novel. There were several times in the second half of the novel when a previous minor detail or throwaway line took on new meaning. For example, there's a particular memorable phrase before a dramatic, bloody battle that happens right at the beginning of the book, and this whole scene was equal parts confusing and intriguing. That wasn't a throwaway line, though, and the reasons will start to come together about halfway through the novel. This really is an unusual mystery. The story's pace picks up a lot, too, because the exposition and setup has already been done.  Once the various storylines get moving, this starts to be a mystery thriller with mythic elements. Readers will start to uncover patterns and connections in those unconnected storylines, and high drama and danger will keep the pages of Asgard Park turning. ",
   "This book sounded like an interesting mix of spy thriller and metaphysical elements but, unfortunately, it was not for me. The story held my interest, but I never connected with any of the characters. I also found the plot a little confusing. Regarding the mythological part, maybe more knowledge about Nordic culture would have helped. I've read books about the subject, but not enough to grasp what was really going on. I liked the writing, how the author shows how hard life in Albania was back then. The little details, like not knowing what shampoo is, or eating rotten food, really drive the point home. In retrospect, the audiobook may not have been a good idea for me, with all the foreign names it was hard to follow the action. Even the solid performance by Dennis Heath didn't help me completely understand the story. I'm sorry I didn't enjoy this more.  I chose to listen to this audiobook and all opinions in this review are my own and completely unbiased. Thank you, #NetGalley/#PublishDrive, Eventhor Media!",
   'Between the undefined acronyms, the incredibly long/difficult names, and the references to groups and organizations I have never heard of, it was extremely hard to figure out what was going on. Check out my blog for my full review:  http://tubchairtimes.blogspot.ca/2012...',
   "Did not enjoy this book. It started out slow, keep jumping back/forth and I gave it my 100 page try but couldn't finish. "],
  '_version_': 1748857811394101248},
 {'id': '36941',
  'author': ['Jo Claes'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': 'The Leuven art expert Pieter Torfs is approached by a stunning woman, Christina Jonckheere. She wants to hire Torfs to carry out an expertise on an unknown work by the late medieval painter Martin Schongauer. Torfs, who has a passionate but bizarre relationship with his assistant, suspects that something is not right with the painting. Nevertheless, he accepts the assignment when it appears that Christina Jonckheere is interested in more than in a purely business relationship. After thorough scientific research, Torfs issues a certificate of authenticity and the work is sold for a fortune. Two weeks later, he dangles from a rope in his house. Suicide at first sight. Chief Inspector Thomas Berg bites into the investigation and discovers that there is no suicide involved. When a second victim falls a few days later, the otherwise quiet university town is suddenly saddled with a double murder.',
  'genre': ['Thriller', 'Mystery', 'Crime'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1325777541l/13378494.jpg',
  'isbn': '9089240136',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13378494-de-zaak-torfs',
  'page_count': '367',
  'rating': '3.75',
  'review_count': '20',
  'title': 'The Torfs case',
  'rating_count': '257',
  'price': '18.61',
  'sensitivity': ['murder', 'death', 'suicide'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['boring',
   'top',
   'new',
   'rich',
   'fascinating',
   'remarkable',
   'favorite',
   'worthy',
   'important',
   'wonderful',
   'interesting',
   'complicated',
   'missing',
   'enjoyed',
   'surprising',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'special',
   'damaged',
   'bad',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'annoyed',
   'surprised',
   'perfection',
   'beautiful',
   'captivated',
   'detailed',
   'fake',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["*3.5 stars* I thought it was a good detective novel that read very quickly, but I have to say that a few things annoyed me about the book. Such as the exaggerated description of clothing, food or people and also the sometimes too explicit romance scenes. The parts dealing with the business or Berg's personal life were of course interesting, but I'm not sure the way of telling was quite my thing. Maybe I'll give some of the other books in the series another chance as they read so quickly. You kept trying to figure out for yourself exactly how the murder had happened with no real certainty of what had happened.",
   "Chief Inspector Thomas Berg has to solve the murder of art expert/restorer Pieter Torfs and encounters special things and people in the process. Key question throughout the story: is 'De Schongauer' real or fake? You don't recognize liars by their noses, Berg has to do the necessary research to find out the truth. Beautifully written by Jo Claes. Subdued, wonderful atmosphere, well-developed characters, little tension and yet fascinating. A small minus are the many street names that are mentioned, they add absolutely nothing for those who do not know Leuven. My curiosity for the next installments in the Thomas Berg series has been piqued!",
   "These books are really fun! They are exciting, often have a lot of plot twists (which I didn't see coming in this case), so you often only know how it works at the very end. I will definitely be reading more books in this series. They are perfect for in between.",
   'The Torfs case by Jo Claes This is the first part of the Thomas Berg series written by Jo Claes. I was very curious about the way of writing this because I had never read anything by Jo Claes before. Now I have to say that I really enjoyed reading this book and will definitely read the follow-up books. Pieter Torfs is commissioned by Christine Jonckheere to check a painting for authenticity or forgery. There are deaths and the question now is, are these suicides or are they murders and if it is murder, who is the one who did this? Thomas Berg will investigate this as chief inspector in Leuven. This is going to be a complicated investigation. Every now and then I found the story a bit long-winded and for me certain parts would have been allowed. But the last ending was super exciting and very well written. This book gets 4 stars from me.',
   "This was the first book I read by Jo Claes. Enthusiastic stories made me curious about the author, the book and the main character, Thomas Berg. It took a while for this main character to appear in the story. To be precise: after reading a third of the book. Good to check, because the story is divided into three almost equal chapters, each named after the month in which the story is set. In part 1 we get to know the bearer of the name from the title: Pieter Torfs. He has a restoration studio in Leuven. Christina Jonckheere, a rich lady from the same place, has inherited a painting from a great painter. Her grandfather collected art and he left her this valuable painting, the rest went to other relatives. The painting had yet to receive proof of authenticity. Torfs was asked to inspect the painting and provide this proof. He doubts the painting's authenticity, but accepts the commission at the insistence of the curator of a local museum. There the canvas will form the center of an exhibition. At the opening of this exhibition, the painting turns out to be a forgery. Shortly afterwards, Torfs is found: he seems to have hanged himself in his home. Not long after, his assistant is found murdered. Then Berg appears on the scene. He is single, likes beautiful things, good food, classical music. He once started studying theology, but then changed his direction, ended up with the police in Brussels, but recently started working for the police in Leuven as a chief inspector. He still has to get used to that. He is constantly at loggerheads, especially with his immediate boss and with the judge. He remains quite calm about it, gets along well with his colleagues and in his spare time he likes to drink an espresso on a terrace, where a nice French art history student arouses his interest. Solving this case is quite a puzzle, Berg occasionally doubts whether he will ever know who the perpetrator of these two murders is. However, he calmly searches further and thinks. Meanwhile, all the street names of Leuven appear a few times. That does not make reading any more pleasant, if the city is completely foreign to you. The writer's Flemish also got in the way for me as a reader. I had to read sentences a few times every now and then to know what something was about and what was meant. An excavation is not really called a site in Dutch. You will find it on the computer. And this is just one of many examples. But otherwise it was a pleasant book to read. It wasn't really that exciting: you saw well before the end how it would end. The characters were well developed, the main character sympathetic in such a way that you sometimes want to read a book in which he is the main character.",
   "Review The Torfs case - Jo Claes In the otherwise quiet university city of Leuven, the body of art expert Pieter Torfs is found, who was involved in a remarkable case of art fraud two weeks earlier. At first glance he seems to have taken his own life, but when his assistant is also found dead two days later, it turns out to be something much bigger. Chief Inspector Thomas Berg and his team are assigned to track down the perpetrator of this double murder. The Torfs case is a top notch police thriller. The book offers a good mix of tension, action and eroticism. The characters are worked out to perfection. In this way, between the exciting passages about the investigation, we get an extensive picture of the sympathetic character of the main character Thomas Berg. The structure of the story makes the book very exciting. The author's choice to work with a multiple narrative perspective gives the reader a knowledge advantage. The book consists of two large parts: the first part describes the history of the murder through the eyes of Pieter Torfs and in the second part we follow the investigation into the murder from Thomas Berg's perspective. In this way, Jo Claes allows his readers to draw their own conclusions and develop their own theories, but ensures that the final solution is always just out of reach. Towards the end the story pace accelerates and as a reader you are surprised with many discoveries that follow each other in quick succession, so that the puzzle, piece by piece, falls neatly together. Jo Claes brings together the many storylines in a fabulous way. A worthy conclusion to the excellent plot. However, the Torfs case is more than a thriller. Themes such as art and history occupy a central place throughout the book and give the story depth. When these themes are discussed, it is striking that they have been worked out in great detail and with expertise. Thus, the art expertise of the painting is explained with scientific accuracy, which required the necessary research. In addition, Berg often refers to examples from history or passages from the Bible. On the basis of these 'literary did you know', you as a reader gain knowledge in a pleasant way. The city of Leuven is also an important element in the book. Anyone who lives or studies there will probably enjoy the many recognizable descriptions of streets and buildings. And if you don't know Leuven that well, you might want to explore the city via one of the 'Jo Claes walks' that were recently mapped out. The Torfs case is the first part of a series of thrillers about Chief Inspector Thomas Berg, which now includes thirteen titles. If they are all on the same level as The Torfs Affair, many more may follow.",
   'Painting restorer',
   'Nice to read a book that takes place in Leuven.',
   'I was born in Leuven and went to school there. I read this book with great pleasure. Both because I could visualize many things visually, but also because of the story that kept me captivated.',
   'Nice debut by Jo Claes as a crime writer, and you also gain some knowledge about art along the way. See my review: https://jkleest.nl/2017/10/zaak-torfs...',
   'You discover buildings and places in Leuven that you have walked past carelessly for years',
   'Part 1 was boring, but after that it got pretty exciting',
   "Art expert Pieter Torfs is approached by Christina Jonckheere, who wants him to do an expertise on her recently inherited painting by Martin Schongauer, which was unknown until then. Torfs has his doubts about the whole thing, but agrees against his better judgment. Christina is a beautiful woman and he can't resist…. After the investigation, he issues a certificate of authenticity and the painting will be exhibited in the municipal museum of Leuven, but an anonymous letter arrives on the day of the opening. The Schongauer would have been forged anyway. When Torfs' assistant enters the studio two weeks later, Torfs hangs from a rope on the banister. Suicide, but why? Inspector Berg is placed on the case and immediately notices that something is not right. When a second victim falls a few days later, he is sure: Torfs did not commit suicide. It is up to him to find out exactly how the case works. The main reason I read this book is because it is set in Leuven, my city, and because the author is a Dutch teacher at my school. The cover is so ugly that I wouldn't have even looked at it otherwise, but since this book was on the reading list and I was already curious for the above reasons, I borrowed the book from the library anyway. The story begins with the first encounters between Torfs and Christina. I didn't find this very interesting, but after about sixty pages there is a time jump and the story moves to the moment the murder is discovered. Here you come into contact with Chief Inspector Bergs and I thought he was a nice character. You also learn a lot about his private life and I think that was one of the things that added to the story as the investigation was interspersed with more personal and romantic matters. Still, I felt that Berg's previous relationship could be discussed a little more deeply. This apparently had a lot of impact on his current way of trading, but you don't really get to know much about it. The situation is only described superficially, but Berg still regularly  nags  about it. The book read very quickly and at the end, after careful consideration, I knew who the culprit was. Again, I thought there could have been a little more analysis of the perpetrator, but it didn't really bother me. Christina Jonckheere, on the other hand, was a well-placed character and she really intrigued me. She was described in such a way that I could actually picture her! And as is often said, you can recognize a writer in his books! Of course I don't know him personally, but he has a certain reputation and you can see it reflected in Berg's character. I really enjoyed this book and plan to read the next books in the series as well. Until death do us part, the fifth book about inspector Berg was recently published.",
   'Too detailed, but it has to be said: strong plot, intelligently written, literary level and rich in Leuven culture and art.',
   "AWESOME! This is the first book in the series with Thomas Berg as the main character. For me this is the third book I've read by Jo Claes and he really is one of my favorite writers and definitely the discovery of the year. The writing style is smooth and lively. The characters are well developed and you can see in front of you, just like the city of Leuven. I've never been there, but I'm sure I'll recognize things when I get there. It's for sure, I have to read everything by Jo Claes with Thomas Berg in the lead role! My compliments!",
   'Pieter Torfs is an art expert, makes repairs and assesses art for authenticity. After he takes a painting for real, it turns out to be a forgery. His reputation has been damaged. Not long after, he was found and hanged himself. Or not? Shortly afterwards, his assistant is strangled. That can no longer be a coincidence. Thomas Berg bites into it. During the resolution of the case, we get a tour of Leuven, along coastal works that you normally just pass by. For me it took too long for the story to really get going.',
   "A nice enough detective but it didn't reach the height yet of Pieter Aspen. Though this series does not take place in Brugge (Belgium) it is in a city a little bit alike, in Luik/Liege! Also quite known by me, so I can envision the streets. Yet, it does not have the same interaction between the characters here that Aspen has. But this was the first book in a serie, perhaps later on something more might happen. Not a bad book at all, but something is still missing...",
   "The plot is still going. The policeman is a huge cliché with his love for cows and orchids. What really disturbs is the presence of Leuven. The city is actually the main character but not in an interesting way. The city does not contribute to the plot and it does not create any atmosphere. It's just an obtrusive list of street names.",
   "Enjoyed reading. Lots of information about Leuven and about painting. Sympathetic detective Surprising plot, although I realized it at some point. In my opinion, the story flows a little too much. Could have been a little more exciting. I'll continue with the series.",
   'Jo Claes will be my new favorite! Great story line, good police story with the usual frictions between the detective and his superiors, lots of history, and the right amount of spiciness.',
   'A shame that I have never read a book by Jo Claes before. It was beautiful and exciting from start to finish.'],
  '_version_': 1748857811307069440},
 {'id': '41677',
  'author': ['Robin Burcell'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "A high-profile killing has brought FBI Special Agent and forensic artist Sydney Fitzpatrick to Amsterdam—even as the assassination of a prominent U.S. senator rocks the political world. Two seemingly unrelated murders are leading Sydney to the threshold of a shocking conspiracy to spread a plague of death across the globe, especially when her sketch of a killer—and possible conspirator—reveals the face of a female CIA agent believed to be dead.,The murder of a witness and the disappearance of the missing agent's husband, covert government operative Zachary Griffin, has Sydney racing against the clock to prevent a biological nightmare of astronomical proportions. For the dark hour is rapidly approaching when all secrets will be revealed . . . and the lives of countless millions will hang in the balance.",
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Thriller', 'Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1340384018l/13624071.jpg',
  'isbn': '62133470',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13624071-the-dark-hour',
  'page_count': '400',
  'rating': '3.89',
  'review_count': '47',
  'title': 'The Dark Hour',
  'rating_count': '344',
  'sensitivity': ['suicide', 'terrorism', 'murder', 'death', 'plague'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['rec',
   'unique',
   'complex',
   'top',
   'filler',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'recommend',
   'enjoying',
   'bizarre',
   'hate',
   'enjoyable',
   'powerful',
   'favorite',
   'relate',
   'incredible',
   'important',
   'wonderful',
   'shocking',
   'worse',
   'worst',
   'unexpected',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'fun',
   'best',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'special',
   'easy',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'love',
   'dark',
   'familiar',
   'attention',
   'entertaining',
   'suffer',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'dull',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["The action never stops in this thriller by Robin Burcell, as CIA agent Zach Griffin escapes across the rooftops of Amsterdam's red light district, and special FBI agent Sydney Fitzpatrick narrowly escapes death when a vital witness is murdered. But with her skill as a forensic artist, Fitzpatrick has created a sketch that proves to be more important than she realized, when the woman in the sketch proves to be someone who supposedly died two years previously, and the wife of Zach Griffin.  Then a U.S. Senator is murdered as he is about to give a public speech. A mentally deranged suspect is soon arrested, but he conveniently commits suicide while in custody. Somehow the Senator's murder is connected to a deadly virus that could kill thousands, and agents risk their lives to infiltrate a remote Network compound in the Brazilian jungle. Agents Fitzpatrick and Griffin both work against time to find the virus before it can be used.  The Dark Hour contains a dizzying cast of characters that somehow manage to connect in a satisfying and unexpected conclusion. The characters are renegades and extreme risk-takers, but in the world of espionage, what else would they be? Along the way, the agents even have time to think of romance, which not surprisingly never seems to work out. Agents from the FBI, CIA, MI6 and ATLAS ( a U.S. intelligence agency that works clandestinely outside and inside the country all fight against the evil of  the Network.  And with the layers of intelligence agencies involved, as well as double agents and suspected double agents, it is often difficult to identify the bad guys, until they are dead. The Dark Hour is a wonderful, breath-taking novel of escape. No one could do what agents Fitzpatrick and Griffin do, or could they? This book was highly entertaining, and takes the reader into the world of  maybe it could happen.    ",
   "I've read three books by Robin Burcell, and The Dark Hour did not disappoint. This book is jam-packed with intrigue, adventure, spies, biological terrorism, mystery, and terrifying future implications. Yes, that's a tall order to fill in one novel, but Burchell has done an incredible job pulling all the strings together to make a satisfying crime thriller.  I love action-packed novels, and Burcell serves it up page after page, weaving two stories together to produce a dynamic, well-written story. The Dark Hour is bone-chilling, exciting and full of complex characters, new and familiar.   I can easily say she is fast becoming one of my favorite writers. I look forward to reading more of her work and I highly recommend The Dark Hour. A five star read!",
   "   A high-profile killing has brought FBI Special Agent and forensic artist Sydney Fitzpatrick to Amsterdam-even as the assassination of a prominent U.S. senator rocks the political world. Two seemingly unrelated murders are leading Sydney to the threshold of a shocking conspiracy to spread a plague of death across the globe, especially when her sketch of a killer-and possible conspirator-reveals the face of a female CIA agent believed to be dead. The murder of a witness and the disappearance of the missing agent's husband, covert government operative Zachary Griffin, has Sydney racing against the clock to prevent a biological nightmare of astronomical proportions. For the dark hour is rapidly approaching when all secrets will be revealed…and the lives of countless millions will hang in the balance. This is part one of back-to-back releases for Robin Burcell. The Black List will be on the blog in the next month as well. This book reminds me a lot of Jamie Freveletti's books that I have recently read, especially Robert Ludlum's The Janus Reprisal mixed a little with her Emma Caldridge books. You have a very strong female character who is very intelligent and ends up in a bad situation. You also have a good man by her side, trying to keep them both alive. And let's not forget a little biological warfare. I know I have said this a lot lately, but it makes me laugh a little when I look at the books on my shelf now compared to a few years ago when I started my blog. I was cleaning up my bookshelves today and in one stack I had everything from Kieran Scott to Janet Evanovich to Linda Lael Miller to James Patterson. If nothing else, a blog is a great way to show how you grow as a reader as you age (bleh I hate that I just said that…..age). This book was very well-written and kept me on my toes. I absolutely loved that it had two seemingly completely different story lines, but as events unfold you learn that may not be the case. I really liked this book and am stoked to read the next one soon. I read that Robin Burcell is actually a police officer and is an FBI Forensic Artist. I really hope that she dives deeper into that with Syndey in future books. There are two other Sydney books that came out a few years ago that I would also love to read, along with another series featuring Homicide Investigator Kate Gillespie. Give me a female detective and I AM IN! I give The Dark Hour 5 out of 5 bookmarks.",
   "Third Sydney Fitzpatrick FBI suspense spy thriller. Not nearly as good as first two in series. There far too many characters and sub plots going to keep this from being a clean read. Continually having to stop and think where each character fit into. Sydney Fitzpatrick herself is probably in less than half of book's plot. At 370 long pages this one was somewhat flat. However the conclusion was quite good. Giving three stars out of a possible five stars for,  The Dark Hour . (2.75 Stars was high enough for this yarn).",
   "I don't think the author left anything out of this book. A world-wide conspiracy, a super-virus, the lost city of Atlantis, pirates, a hidden jungle compound... I got so confused keeping track of all the characters, I made a list of all the names and inter-connected agencies. I think the complexity of the plot was a little overdone, but don't take my word for it. Sydney Fitzpatrick, the book's heroine, said on page 244:  My brain's starting to hurt from even contemplating all this.  Brain pain aside, I kept turning those pages. I wouldn't be opposed to reading another one in this series.",
   "Initially, in this book by Robin Burcell, it seems that the worst-case scenario in the storyline will be treachery of the marital and political kind. But that's only the tip of a much more sinister iceberg, and the tale that unfolds touches on such divers themes as a world-wide terror conspiracy, bioweapons, automated submarine drones, a Vatican spy, and even the lost kingdom of Atlantis. Also initially, this reader needed a healthy suspension of disbelief, a reaction I often have to thrillers, I must admit. But it isn't long before the author's skill in writing well-drawn characters that the reader comes to care about, and creating a taut action-packed plot, had me turning pages faster and faster right up to the exciting, nerve-tingling denouement. In today's world, perhaps more than ever before, the threat of bioweapons is a very real one, and here the powers that be aren't even sure who the culprits are, that enigma continuing through most of the novel. The action takes place in various parts of the world, including the Cayman Islands, Washington. D.C., Paris, Switzerland, Brazil, Amsterdam, and San Francisco. The protagonists are Sydney Fitzpatrick, female FBI Special Agent and forensic artist, and Zachary Griffin, covert government operative, still grieving for his wife, a CIA agent believed to have died in an explosion two years ago. After the murder of a U.S. Senator, and with evidence that there is much more involved, a whole alphabet of government agencies become involved, e.g., FBI, CIA, NSA, DIA, and the possibly fictional ATLAS (Alliance for Threat Level Assessment and Security) and FCI (Foreign Counterintelligence Squad), NCTC (National Counterterrorism Center) et al. This was only the second book by Ms. Burcell that I've read, but I can't wait for the next one in the series, which, luckily enough, I have in my possession: “The Black List,” which came out in December, 2012, to which I greatly look forward. The book is, obviously, recommended.",
   "Espionage galore, double agents, bioweapons - the real scary stuff with a ring of truth. It's spy versus spy - not the MAD Magazine type - worse! This is a pretty good book, but I can't help think that the main characters are  experienced  FBI agents and CIA and still they seem unprepared for what lies ahead and get themselves in predictaments that they should have foreseen and readied themselves for. I mean, seriously, their enemies seem to be prepared for every scenario! Good research done overall by the author and not a bad read.",
   "Another wild ride while agents try to stop the conglomorate Black Network from causing major harm to mankind. Lots of twists and turns and near-death experiences based on what could be true incidences that could happen! Another great installment of this series. Can't wait to read the next one! If you like James Rollins or Michael Crichton, you will like this one...",
   'One of my advance copies from Bouchercon. An excellent fast paced read. ',
   'I won a copy of The Dark Hour (Paperback)  by Robin Burcell in a giveaway for free on Goodreads First Reads- I have received my copy and can not wait to read and review this book. .Thank You!! :) ',
   "First off why don't more people know about this series? Mom and I work in a library and people are always looking for series rec's, and we have to tell them they would have to purchase it, but this series is solid recommendation. We know we have not finished this series, but three out of five, or three out of six if you count the novella, is not bad. Again we start out with people being hurt and Sydney being brought into to identify a woman from memory. Seriously this story does not take long to get going because Mom and I think it only takes only chapter or two of Sydney enter into the story before we are off on the run.  Mom also wants to give the author props for caring over the emotion baggage/story line. Though mom and I would both like to say you don't separately need to read this series in order, especially to grasp the story going on in this book, but if you like some series pay off than you may want to start at the beginning. Over all this book is another go getter int his series and leaves us looking forward to the next book.",
   "Sydney Fitzpatrick, having concluded the previous case in Rome  The Bone Chamber , has gone back to resume work at Quantico and has not heard from Griffin (her love interest) after not showing up at the thanksgiving dinner. Tex shows up and enlist the help of Sydney to do a sketch for a witness as Griffin is now being accused of murder of a former informant. The sketch turns out to be Griffin's supposedly dead wife who had died in an operation gone wrong two years ago. Senator Grogan's assassination brings to light the investigation to the Lockestarr investigation and the network of black ops and the potential threat of a powerful recombined virus. All seemingly unreleted incidents are then tied to the Lockestarr investigation, a supposedly deceased agent who has turned rogue, an agent bent on finding out the truth about the awry operation gone wrong two years ago and a senator family with a secret background.  Wonderful thriller, can't get enough of it. ",
   'Thrill ride for sure on this read. This one concerning biowarfair with deadly viruses! Wow, every chapter, another part of the world: Holland, France, Jamaica, Atlantis, Washington DC, hold on to your seat. Ending was a little abrupt, but then, there is still another book in the series. Extremely strong author, what an imagination and yet it could all happen!',
   'Hard to make my mind on the evaluation. There are so many player that it looks like reading the American version of a Russian novel. Changes of scene forced me to pause and recall where tha part osf the story was the last time. But kudos to Burcell: he merges all the tiles and at the end everyhing fitd pefectly.',
   "I love Sidney and the group. This is a great book. I can't wait to read more. It's one of the best Series. The story moves fast and keeps you guessing. I Never can predict the ending",
   'Thankx for the read..entertaining..fairly quick..and onto the next Robin Burcell book at hand.',
   "Sit back and get ready to enjoy an action-packed trip around the world as Sydney Fitzpatrick gets involved in another top secret and very dangerous investigation. “The Dark Hour” is the third in Robin Burcell's series featuring Sydney Fitzpatrick, who is both an FBI Special Agent and a forensic artist. The prior book in this series, “The Bone Chamber” is a combination of an FBI thriller and a suspense novel in the same style as “The Da Vinci Code”. “The Dark Hour” is more of a true FBI suspense novel with computer hackers and the threat of a deadly virus thrown in.  This follow-up book is excellent, but not quite as exciting as the prior book in the series. It is fast-paced with action involving a large cast of characters, including the FBI, the CIA, secret agents, double-agents, black ops agents, as well as several villains. You definitely have to stay on your toes while reading to keep up with the storyline. The whole book takes place over one month from locations ranging from Washington, DC to Amsterdam, to Paris, and even the lost city of Atlantis! There is obviously a lot going on and like a giant jigsaw puzzle with seemingly unrelated pieces, there is a lot of chaos and confusion before everything comes together at the end. In the parts of the book when things became too confusing, my attention wandered. The most unique thing about this series is Sydney's skill as a forensic artist, and although a drawing she does in this book is a key part of the story, she only does the one drawing. I would have loved to see more of Sydney in action doing her drawings and less of her dodging bullets.  Sydney's professional partnering and possible romance with agent Zachary Griffin also plays a key part in the story. They make a great team and it seems there is a could chance their partnership will continue into future books. Although this installment doesn't fully live up to the excellence of “The Bone Chamber”, it's still an exciting story. The book ends with an informative, but scary, afterward by the author on the subject of bioweapons. I will definitely continue with this series to see what happens next in Sydney's career and her personal life.",
   "The action never stops in this thriller by Robin Burcell. CIA agent Zach Griffin escapes across the rooftops of Amsterdam's red light district, and special FBI agent Sydney Fitzpatrick narrowly escapes death when a vital witness is murdered. But with her skill as a forensic artist, Fitzpatrick has created a sketch that proves to be more important than she realized when the woman in the sketch proves to be someone who supposedly died two years previously, and the wife of Zach Griffin. Then a U.S. Senator is murdered as he is about to give a public speech. A mentally deranged suspect is soon arrested, but he conveniently commits suicide while in custody. Somehow the Senator's murder is connected to a deadly virus that could kill thousands, and agents risk their lives to infiltrate a remote Network compound in the Brazilian jungle. Agents Fitzpatrick and Griffin both work against time to find the virus before it can be used. “The Dark Hour” contains a dizzying cast of characters that somehow manage to connect in a satisfying and unexpected conclusion. The characters are renegades and extreme risk-takers, but in the world of espionage, what else would they be? Along the way, the agents even have time to think of romance, which, not surprisingly, never seems to work out. Agents from the FBI, CIA, MI6, and ATLAS (a U.S. intelligence agency that works clandestinely outside and inside the country) all fight against the evil of “the Network.” And with the layers of intelligence agencies involved, as well as double agents and suspected double agents, it is often difficult to identify the bad guys, until they are dead. “The Dark Hour” is a wonderful, breath-taking novel of escape. No one could do what agents Fitzpatrick and Griffin do, or could they? This book was highly entertaining and takes the reader into the world of “maybe it could happen.” Reviewed by Kathleen Heady, author of “Lydia's Story” for Suspense Magazine ",
   "FBI Special Agent and forensic artist Sydney Fitzpatrick has been brought to Amsterdam to make a sketch of the person who was seen in the area of an informant's murder. Unfortunately, the witness did not see the assassin clearly, but did see someone else who was with him. When the witness is killed, and Sydney escapes out a window, the race is on to identify the sketch she has made and get Sydney out of harms way.  This is a very fast paced tale, including the same international intrigue as in The Face of a Killer and The Bone Chamber, books one and two of this series. Some of our favorite team members return to assist with the heavy lifting. Robin provides wonderful scenes of spies and investigators researching the facts of missing AUVs and stolen biological vials, as well as national security issues and US port security matters. I particularly enjoy the tight places her characters find themselves in, and how they get out of them. In The Dark Hour we are hit with the reappearance of a CIA agent who was thought to be dead and the burning of an agent in the field investigating whether that agent was really alive or just being used as a distraction for covert activities. If she is alive, is she a double agent, or just working deep undercover? We get to see the workings of the alphabet agencies in the US who pull the strings of their agents, and try to determine who are the good guys and who aren't. We also learn about biological weapons and the dangers the world faces when terrorists decide to use them.  I recommend this book if you love thrillers and international intrigue.",
   "This is the third book featuring FBI Special Agent Sydney Fitzpatrick. There is plenty of fast paced action, some unexpected plot twists, with just a little touch of romantic thoughts thrown in for spice. The story stands well on its own, but you would understand some of the ideas a little better if you had read the first two books first. If you have a kindle, all three books are under $5.00 each at Amazon, so you might want to read them in order. I enjoyed the story. Sometimes it seemed a little too easy for the  Good Guys  to escape the predicaments that they got into. But they certainly got into plenty of them, so they had to get out of them quickly, so that the action didn't suffer. There were multiple groups of agents doing different things at the same time, and the story would switch between the various groups, so there was never a dull moment.  Ms. Burcell knows how to hold your interest and spin a fast paced story. I give this 4 stars. Sometimes it was just too easy to escape from trouble. I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads.",
   "The Dark Hour is a fast-paced, action-packed thriller that never takes it's foot off the pedal.  While there may not be anything ground breaking in the author's writing, Robin Burcell is able to pull many characters, storylines, and agendas into a well thought out thriller that is a very pleasurable read.  Every alphabet soup government agency is involved the story and the characters are fairly shallow as one might expect in this type of book. That said, I did enjoy some of them quite a lot for a book in this genre.  Between the intricate plot line that is brought together with great success, the non-stop action, and the enjoyable characters, I found myself enjoying this book more than I would have thought and would highly recommend to anyone who enjoys a good spy novel or thriller. I'm going to look into the first two novels of the series so I can catch up.",
   "I don't know why I hadn't heard of this author before recently, but now that I've read this novel I have to go back and read her previous novels. The action is fast and its easy to relate with the characters. Being an amateur artist, I also found it interesting that the main character is a forensic artist. This is the third book with the forensic artist, Sydney Fitzpatrick, as the main character. If you prefer to read the novels in order the first 2 novels are, The Bone Chamber and Face of a Killer. What I found even more interesting was the section after the novel is finished that is entitled Fact or Fiction. Its a real eye-opener on just what dangers there are out there that we never think about.",
   "Having read the first two books in the Sydney Fitzpatrick series I naturally continued with the third - initially I was a little disappointed with this one, it seemed to be a bit too  fictiony  whereas I usually like more realism to my novels. It did however redeem itself in the latter half to the point you're able to overlook the bizarre circumstances and enjoy the action and adventure. Seemed like it was trying a bit too hard to be a spy novel and over reached. Overall, an enjoyable time-filler. Preferred books 1 & 2 though.",
   "This book is definitely a thriller. I was constantly telling myself,  Just one more chapter  to try to piece together everything that was going to happen next. I also enjoy books were multiple seemingly unrelated storylines all come together in the end to form a bigger picture. I'll definitely have to read the other books in the Sydney Fitzpatrick series (this is the first one I've read even though it is the 3rd book in the group). This was an enjoyable read.",
   'Robin Burcell is still writing wonderful, interesting, and suspenseful mysteries. This has the San Francisco FBI artist being sent to Washington DC and then on to Amsterdam and France. At the same time there is something going on in the Carribean area. A scub diving group are shot, a freighter has dead people on boad and the mystery grows. The two incidents are related to a Senator being killed in Washington DC. Robin ties all the events up nicely and until the end one is kept in suspense. ',
   "I really enjoyed the book and want to read more by the author. If you love action, adventure and a bit of mystery you'll enjoy. My main reason for not giving it a higher rating was because I hadn't read the first books in the series and I was a little confused at times to references to past events. Also, there were quite a few characters introduced and it took me some time to sort out who was who. In fact I don't think I ever quite figured out some of them!",
   'The book keeps your attention all the time. It keeps us guessing who is actually the guilty ones. It also never ventures out of the relm of plausible actions, no outrageous fights, car chases, etc. In Dark Hour, Robin Burcell did an excellent job on writing a book that keep me reading until I finished it.',
   'Interesting thriller - FBI, CIA, political thriller. There is a lot going on here, and it is fast-paced and interesting. You follow the main characters back and forth across the Atlantic as you try to match up what is going on in Europe with the conspiracies in Washington, DC. To me it reads a lot like a movie - would probably make a pretty interesting movie, actually.',
   "I'm sure my rating is below what this book deserved. Between Christmas, family visiting, snow, power outage, and my cat throwing up in almost every room, I was distracted. It took me way too long to read it but that is not the fault of the author.",
   'A Solid thriller about government, covert operations/teams, and conspiracies The Dark Hour is a fun and easy read for any mystery fan (especially if you like James Rollins Sigma Force or Douglas Preston novels).'],
  '_version_': 1748857867453071360},
 {'id': '25407',
  'author': ['Camilla Läckberg', 'Steven T. Murray'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "The first three crime thrillers from worldwide bestseller Camilla Läckberg.,The Ice Princess: The body of crime writer Erica Falck's childhood friend is discovered, wrists slashed, in an ice cold bath. Was it murder or suicide? The investigation leads her to a community on the brink of tragedy.,The Preacher: Twenty years ago, two young women disappeared in Fjällbacka - now their remains are found, along with a new victim. As Patrik Hedström works to solve these murders, do the dark secrets of a local family hold the key?,The Stonecutter: When a little girl is found in a fisherman's net, the police realize it was no accidental drowning. Patrik Hedström investigates the death of a child both he and Erica knew well.",
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Crime', 'Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1327738267l/12370330.jpg',
  'isbn': '1780811748',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12370330-patrik-hedstr-m-3-book-collection-set',
  'page_count': '0',
  'rating': '4.2',
  'review_count': '33',
  'title': 'Patrik Hedström 3 Book Collection Set',
  'rating_count': '711',
  'sensitivity': ['murder'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['period',
   'new',
   'recommend',
   'brilliant',
   'flaw',
   'poor',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'grate',
   'wonderful',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'best',
   'different',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'tea',
   'lacked',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'familiar',
   'original',
   'entertaining',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ['After reading the Preacher, I went back to get the first in the series and have continued in sequence. The Swedes seem to put a lot more texture into the writing. You get to know the characters very well. No perfect superheros. Everyone has a flaw. Just like real people. This is a series of great stories.',
   "I have read the entire series, even the new one out in Swedish this week. To me Lackberg's writing is the equivalent of Ikea. Easy to read, but do not expect high quality. The tried and tested formula in all her books; old story combined with murder and characters relationships not really changing much.",
   "So hard to put down, a brilliant writer, great story lines and characters that are believable and real. The writer has the ability to portray all different characters believably and with insight. Am so pleased the original Swedish was translated into English. She is now one of my favourite authors. The sort of books you stay up all night reading and can't wait to get home and pick up again!",
   'I love ALL her books.',
   'Love this crime series !!!',
   "[This review refers to The Stonecutter, since there isn't an individual listing for that particular book in English .] Entertaining. The story is dark but the writing is ultra light. A bit convoluted in the way the story from the past was tied in to the present day story. And every once in a while a character would pop in and I'd say to myself, “Monica? Who the hell is Monica?”",
   'Comprlling The first three books are a smorgasbord of depravity that keep you guessing and reading. The problem is that there are so many characters in each story that you need a chart to keep them straight. Nonetheless the stories are compelling. The characters are reasonably well defined and familiar as you move through the books. ',
   "There are so many aspects of Camilla's book that grate me the wrong way. A lack of subtlety at times, and talking about body weight frequently. But a page turner nonetheless . ",
   "An absolute favourite thriller writer of mine, she captures the essence of the people and the setting so perfectly you'd be hard pressed not to believe you were there. ",
   'My new favourite author. Loving these stories.',
   'Interesting  Stick with it, book 2 and 3 much better than the first book. There are some sections that are absolutely beautifully written. I look forward to reading book 4.',
   "The Ice Princess is one of Camilla Lackberg's earlier Erica Falck stories and was published in English in 2010. Erica is getting over the recent loss of her parents and has returned to Fjallbacka, living in the family home, and trying to get on with her writing assignments. Her childhood friend Alex is found dead in an ice cold bath with her wrists slashed, but it isn't murder. Although she and Alex hadn't maintained their early friendship Erica becomes obsessive about finding the truth behind Alex's murder. The local detective Patrik Hedstrom also has his own theories, and they eventually pool their ideas, and alongside that a romantic relationship begins. Although this is an early Camilla Lackberg thriller, she's setting the scene for what will follow. The location of Fjallbacka in coastal and remote Sweden, the introduction of the man she will marry in subsequent stories, give a sense of what I had already enjoyed in the later Erica Falck episodes.",
   "Having enjoyed other Nordic crime writers and having seen this author's works mentioned in many discussions, I would go ahead and try her books out, and read in succession the first 3 with no intervening others. I was not overly impressed with the characters or the stories altho the plots did improve slightly as the books progressed. There is a bit too much emphasis on the relationship, however stilted it is, between the detective and his wife, who essentially adds nothing to the plot. The third book, the stonecutter, was by far, the best of the three, but still lacked a lot in terms of reasoning for the whys in this crime and there were too many jumps from then to now and this crime to that, to keep it cohesive. I do plan to read another one of her books but will take a break before to clear my head.",
   "This is one of the best books I've ever read!! The cool thing about the Stonecutter is the style Camilla writes in. She skips back and forth in time between two eras. It seemed a little odd at first, but I found that I looked forward to the switch to see what was going on in that  time  period. She ties everything together brilliantly, and although you have your suspicions about who the killer is, this book delivers on twists and turns, making you constantly re-evaluate and reconsider. I loved it, and urge everyone to relax in a comfy chair with a hot tea and enjoy. You wont want to put it down! Great book, Great author, Great fun!! ENJOY!! Now I'm excited to read The Preacher, and will let you know how that one is!!. ",
   "Very much to a pattern but a good one. Always one person in italics - the criminal. Then you have Erika's story intertwining with a crime that her partner is working on with the police. Erika is a biographer. Easy read that keeps you going.",
   'Quickly read and quickly forgotten. The first volume is good, the second is a page-turner...the third one is rather poor.',
   'GREAT BOOKS',
   "Couldn't put them down. As good at Steig Larsson trilogy.",
   "I've read the first 2 books and really enjoyed them. Great characters who are believable, compassionate and have a sense of humor. I would recommend them to anyone who likes mysteries.",
   'easy to read, but dont expect too much. ',
   'Read The Preacher: not great. Scandinavian fascination with evil fundamentalist preachers is puzzling. ',
   'I read The Ice Princess .',
   'Have just read The Ice Princess and will be reading the others.',
   'Enjoyed the book but as another reviewer stated it is like IKEA I agree easy to read but predictable',
   'The Stonecutter is a wonderful mystery.',
   'I have read only The Ice Princess but it is really dissapointing.',
   "Great first book in series. It did take awhile for me to get into it. I was listening & the names are Swedisb& hard to follow at first. Can't wait to get book 2.",
   "I am reading these novels in order. Each novel has a stand alone crime, but it really helps to understand the characters' back stories. Protagonists are realistically drawn and engaging. ",
   'The Stonecutter was the least favorite of this series so far but I still enjoyed it. Love watching the story of Erica and Patrick develop.',
   'I enjoyed reading The Ice Princess the first book of the series that I am buying all the other books from this series. This was a book picked to read in our own book club cannot wait to discuss. '],
  '_version_': 1748857570610642944},
 {'id': '21566',
  'author': ['A.G. Hayes'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "The likelihood of Native Americans actually exercising their rights as Sovereign Nations is a distinct possibility. Who's Killing All the Lawyers offers a glimpse into how this could become a reality and the nationwide reaction to such an event,One by one laser-driven arrows are murdering lawyers in the Southwest. The victims are in litigation for lobbyist wishing to block the further development of Native American casinos in California and Nevada., ,Assigned to unravel a web of murder, intrigue and conspiracy against the Indian Nations, FBI Agent Joseph Falk and his partner Susan Koski head a team of low-profile professionals from the Bureau of Land Management in searching for the killers., ,The investigation goes into high gear when members of Falk's team become victims. Convinced the bizarre deaths of the Lawyers were designed to mislead the public into blaming the Native American Nations, he and Koski are determined to bring the culprits to justice",
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Thriller', 'Legal Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1343958403l/11975457.jpg',
  'isbn': '983286124',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/11975457-who-s-killing-all-the-lawyers',
  'page_count': '267',
  'rating': '4.46',
  'review_count': '3',
  'title': "Who's Killing all the Lawyers?",
  'rating_count': '13',
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['bad', 'mafia', 'drama', 'fantastic'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'disgust', 'surprise'],
  'review': ["Too bad there's no cover, as it's a dandy. If you like action, this is it. Lawyers are being murdered by lazer driven arrows. Called into investigate are teams from the FBI the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and no one knows why the murders are happening. Add in a British hit man, the Mafia, and the U.S. Armed forces and you have non-stop drama, action, and more than one gory scene, chase scene, etc. Enough to keep you reading on and on. A fantastic ending, too.",
   " (press release at  http://prolog.org/11935892 )  Book/author link add A.G.Hayes Who's Killing All The Lawyers",
   "I opened it around 10:30 pm figuring I would read a few chapters and it would help put me to sleep. HA! Around 4 am I finished the book! I could not put it down without reading  just one more chapter . The character development, twists and turns, constant action, etc kept me wondering what was coming next and not wanting to miss it. To describe the book in one word 'Addicting'."],
  '_version_': 1748857466783793152},
 {'id': '59531',
  'author': ['Frode Granhus'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': 'During a stormy night in Reine in Lofoten, a huge boulder loosens and plows a deep channel in the mountain. The landslide reveals what at first glance looks like small bones and bones.,A burnt figure lies in the nursing home in the village. The fire has deprived him of his sight, ability to speak and most of his ability to move. The pain is constant, but he lives. Unfortunately, he is not able to tell anyone that the pain is increasing, that an unknown enemy is making sure that he gets a little worse, day by day. That the danger is greatest precisely here, where he should be safest.',
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Crime', 'Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1346795483l/15983563.jpg',
  'isbn': '8251656656',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/15983563-stormen',
  'page_count': '331',
  'rating': '3.76',
  'review_count': '12',
  'title': 'The storm',
  'rating_count': '174',
  'sensitivity': ['murder', 'bones', 'death', 'fire', 'depression', 'plague'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'struggle',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'period',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'horrific',
   'compelling',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'surprising',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'special',
   'damaged',
   'bad',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'captivating',
   'dramatic',
   'irritating',
   'beautiful',
   'attention',
   'unexpected',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': [" It is typical of fate that it catches up with the bad and pays back the beautiful for the good.  Note: there will be many delights! I love this author's writing style. I love the main character. I love the rugged Norwegian scenery. I love the stories featured in both parts of this series. I love intrigues, understatements and twists. I love the endings. Always thoroughly described and fully explained. I love both  Wir  and  Sztorm . These are the perfect positions for me. But what is this book about? In a small Norwegian town, a landslide reveals the skeleton of a little boy with broken fingers. At the same time, there is a man in the nursing home, who was burned there as a result of a mysterious mower explosion. What do both facts have in common? What does this have to do with the scary mask drawing? Who is involved in this story? When did it really start? A truly Norwegian climate - harsh, menacing, dark and a bit scary. Rino Carlsen solves mysteries again, impresses again.",
   "[Reviewed for Hebban.nl/Crimezone ] After 'Maalstroom', Frode Granhus' first thriller with protagonist Rino Carlsen, the wait for number two, 'Stormnacht', seemed to be a long one. But there it is, the translation of 'Stormen', which was nominated in Norway for both the Riverton Prize and the Booksellers Award. With a series it is always exciting whether the next book can compete with the - in this case high - level of the previous one. Frode Granhus (1965) has situated 'Stormnacht' in the unique natural landscape near his hometown on the Lofoten, an archipelago off the coast of Norway, whereby he says he has allowed himself certain topographical freedoms. A miniature tsunami destroys a mountainside, causing a rock avalanche and a huge trench. When nature is calm again, a skeleton is found. Police officer Berger Falch, recovering from a severe depression, is called in and sees on the basis of the finger bones that it is a child and that those bones are broken ... How old is the skeleton, who is the child, is it a died of natural causes and why was it buried in this place? Because Falch is not quite himself, often sits apathetically at his desk, or at home, and is well on his way to retirement, fellow police officer Rino Carlsen has to provide temporary assistance. In other words, Carlsen does research, Falch assists. Great division of tasks, because Carlsen is an excellent detective, Falch knows the islands and their inhabitants and secrets ... In view of the landscape on the Lofoten described in detail by Granhus, this is a no-brainer: 'Stormnacht' is rock solid! Keigaaf could too, because that's it. Or rock solid, because the story fits together rock solid. The author has by no means succumbed to the pressure of the success of 'Maalstroom', but he stands his ground this time as well. While reading, you have to pay attention because of the many perspectives, which are always placed in a new chapter, but of which you sometimes do not immediately know whose perspective it is. This results in many short chapters, which I usually find quite irritating, but which absolutely do not bother me in 'Stormnacht'. It's the way, not out of poverty or intrigue, but out of a wealth of characterful characters and captivating storylines. Events in the present turn out to be related to the past, in itself not very special for a thriller, but exceptionally beautifully constructed. The variety of building blocks is complex: the skeleton already mentioned, the life story of Falch, the history of Boa and Roald and their parents, a man almost killed by burns, a girl with Down syndrome, a boat that went down, a man who no longer speaks (except to his mother), disappearances. Frode Granhus manages to form a beautiful whole through Rino Carlsen. The author undeniably possesses psychological insight, all characters are strongly portrayed and credible, the storylines are dripping with (underneath) tension. One small consideration: the sadism displayed by one of the characters is - to me - unimaginable. Stormy night is oppressive, at times to the point of being dismal.  Nordic Noir . Frode Granhus is a master at painting the natural disasters that plague the Lofoten from time to time, even that is exciting (à la Alice Blanchard in 'Behind the Storm'). Perfect character and atmosphere drawings, beautifully interlocking storylines, it couldn't be better. Don't rush: Rino Carlsen's private life seems like a neglected child, inserted 'because it belongs'? Bickering with ex, son who comes to the Lofoten, but without further elaboration those fragments might as well be left out. Unless another book picks up this thread again. It is nice that Granhus, despite the 'darkness', manages to find room for a joke. Clogs and watching skating competitions, for example, characterize a Dutchman. And when Falch and Carlsen visit someone together, where Falch previously operated solo:  You are with more men than ever.  That little bit of humor is just enough to lighten the heavy story a bit.",
   "4.25 stars - Dutch paperback The story begins with a minor landslide and reveals a shallow grave where the police find the skeleton of a child. The depressed chief of police Berger Falch discovers that many bones are damaged or broken and he concludes that the boy must have been mistreated and killed in a horrific way. In a nursing home, Hero is being treated for life-threatening burns suffered when a lawn mower exploded, and a nearby village has a man who doesn't speak and still lives with his mother. Three storylines that intertwine. Because Chief Agent Berder Falch is clearly dysfunctional, Inspector Rino Carlsen is assigned to the case. As his investigation progresses, he unravels horrific and events that happened long ago that left deep marks on the local community. This is not the first thriller with Inspector Rico Carlsen. But they are stand alone. Despite the fact that there are character descriptions and background in the different books, which does give information about the different main characters, but without you knowing this you can also follow the book. The characters are described convincingly and with the necessary depth. You can imagine most of the participants in the story well. What is told extends over a period of more than fifty years and is presented from an ever-changing perspective. So pay attention and keep a notebook. At the end, all those lines and lines are cleverly connected to each other and there is a complete and rounded story. Recommended if you like a thriller.",
   "After a minor landslide, a shallow grave is revealed in which the police find the skeleton of a child. The depressed chief of police Berger Falch discovers that many bones are damaged or broken and he concludes that the boy must have been mistreated and killed in a horrific way. In a nursing home, Hero is treated for life-threatening burns suffered when a lawn mower exploded, and a nearby village has a man who doesn't speak and still lives with his mother. Because Chief Agent Berder Falch is clearly dysfunctional, Inspector Rino Carlsen is assigned to the case. As his investigation progresses, he uncovers horrific and hidden events that happened long ago and left deep marks on the local community. Frode Granhus (1965) is a Norwegian crime writer who lives and works on the Lofoten, an archipelago in the northern part of Norway. In 2003 he made his debut with the thriller Hevneren. His first book published in the Netherlands is the thriller Maalstroom. It is the first in a series starring Inspector Rino Carlsen. Granhus' breakthrough came with Stormnacht, the second installment of the series, and with which he was nominated for the Rivertonprisen, which is awarded annually for the best Norwegian crime novel. The story is set in the Lofoten where the residential communities are small and closed and where the residents keep things to themselves. In an extremely pleasant writing style, Frode Granhus paints a beautiful picture of the beauty, the emptiness and sometimes desolation of the area and the struggle of the local population with the sea. A melancholy atmosphere that Scandinavian (crime) authors seem to have a patent on. The characters are described convincingly and with the necessary depth. You can imagine most of the participants in the story well. Stormnacht has different storylines and lines and you have to concentrate well not to lose the overview because what Granhus tells stretches over a period of more than fifty years and is presented from an ever-changing perspective. At the end, all those lines and lines are cleverly connected to each other and there is a complete and rounded story. The way Granhus does this shows that he is a talented writer who knows very well how to put together a good crime story. Stormnacht is exciting and captivating from the first page, a book that grips you and that you can hardly put down. Although Granhus isn't exactly explicit in describing events and situations, there are still a few passages that make you shudder. Cruelty always touches you. Stormnacht is a convincing thriller that has everything you would expect from a good thriller: a convincing main character, an intelligent story, beautiful and striking atmospheric drawings, well-developed characters, tension and a compelling denouement.",
   'Here is my review of  The Storm  (external link) http://bokbloggeir.com/2014/07/22/sto...',
   "Fishing weather crime must be a new genre. It is hard to believe that  Norway's most beautiful place , Reine in Lofoten, can be the scene of exciting crime mysteries, but Granhus makes it happen in a believable way. Recommended! Recommended Norwegian crime noir.",
   'Abandoned',
   "This book didn't grab me the way the first book did. Was a little disappointed by the somewhat boring start. The last half picked up strongly and the ending was surprising, sad and romantic.",
   'On holiday in Norway you should read Norwegian literature.',
   "This really is a thriller! What begins as a police investigation into a skeleton that turns out to be the person--a child--buried 50 years ago quickly becomes a mystery involving an entire community. Because after suspected identification, it appears that several other 'accidents' happened on the night of this death. And also the fire, a few months ago, in which a man, maimed beyond recognition, but still alive, became the victim of, suddenly turns out not to be an accident, but more and more the link with the past becomes clear. The new police inspector has his hands full, and on a stormy night like the one fifty years ago, the story comes to a climax, with a few more unexpected revelations. Exciting!",
   "I was actually going to take this with me on my Easter trip, I just thought I'd jump start, but suddenly I had read the whole book in two days! In other words, it was hard to put down, and was filled with excitement from the first page to the last. Enjoyed both the story, the characters and the language very much, and will definitely read more by Frode Granhus :)",
   'Crime novel from Reine, with a sympathetic policeman who must solve an actualized 50-year-old murder mystery, while dramatic events related to what happened back then unfold. Definitely worth reading.',
   'A rather boring book compared to part 1. Was hoping for more but unfortunately that was not in it. Better again next time.',
   'Very good crime novel in interesting setting, the spectacular Lofoten islands.'],
  '_version_': 1748858162828541953},
 {'id': '6748',
  'author': ['David Hosp'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "BPD Detective Zachary Long, who has problems of his own, is called to a murder scene, and when the victim is identified, it brings Finn to a place he thought he'd never have to visit. With the help of his young charge, Sally Malley, colleague ex detective 'Kos' Kozlowski and fellow attorney Lissa Krantz, he knows he has to find the truth.",
  'genre': ['Fiction', 'Thriller', 'Legal Thriller', 'Mystery'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1367185390l/10586349.jpg',
  'isbn': '230753345',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/10586349-next-of-kin',
  'page_count': '374',
  'rating': '3.78',
  'review_count': '43',
  'title': 'Next of Kin',
  'rating_count': '363',
  'sensitivity': ['anxiety', 'murder', 'blood'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['cute',
   'predictable',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'rare',
   'fantastic',
   'enjoyable',
   'powerful',
   'gripping',
   'worst',
   'cliche',
   'unexpected',
   'complicated',
   'entertained',
   'enjoyed',
   'interesting',
   'sad',
   'slow',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'surprise',
   'twist',
   'different',
   'lovely',
   'damaged',
   'hooked',
   'easy',
   'tiresome',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'common',
   'disappointing',
   'office',
   'entertaining',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["👌 my favourite type of book, fast paced and great twists, couldn't put it down!",
   'this was my first Scott Finn book. I liked the story when I first started to read I thought the story will revolve around law it was not. all the characters were interesting and distinct.',
   "I have always enjoyed Hosp's books, especially those related to the law. This one, while a good read and filled with some last minute switcheroo, failed to hit the mark on the legal thriller checklist. i suppose sprinkling in a few 'court' and 'lawyer' references will suffice for some, but I expected some courtroom drama here. All I got was some tangential mention of legal work and a mystery plopped right into the centre. A quick read, for sure, but nowhere near as thorough as I expected.The book surrounds the murder of a down and out woman that we learn is related to the main character, Scott Finn. As Finn pokes around, looking for who might have killed his mother, a Boston Police Department detective down on his luck and full of the sauce is trying to keep his job and crack the case. While all paths lead to a powerful senator, no one can make the accusations stick.Brief discussion of 'hidden pregnancies and births of the 1950s and 160s, and the continued relationship between Finn and an Irish mob boss and you have a cute little literary package perfect as a summer read. Some great twists and turns throughout will keep you guessing how it all plays out in the end.Kudos Mr. Hosp. Now if only libraries and bookstores here in North American would permit for easy access to your work!",
   "David Hosp seems to specialize in damaged characters -- messed-up alcoholic cops, angry foster kids, dodgy lawyers etc. This book reads like the plot for a film noir movie; the lawyer and his colleagues and the local crime boss are stock characters, but that's what we expect from this genre and they don't disappoint. It carries on after the conclusion of  Among Thieves , featuring most of the main characters (having read that one is a bit helpful since it enables one to understand the behavior and personality of the kid Sally). Perhaps the most intriguing new character here is the man called Coale, whose motivation doesn't become clear until near the end. Almost every aspect of the story, as complicated as it is, remains nevertheless entirely credible, particularly the workings of 1950's-era adoption rules. A first-rate tale for anyone who appreciates crime fiction.",
   "This was the first book by David Hosp that I have read and it won't be the last. It was a very enjoyable read; the current overall rating at 3.63 seems to me just about right. It is a combination of police procedural and legal thriller; with probably not enough of either to satisfy the devotees of either sub-genre. It was a Richard & Judy Book Club choice; therefore it is  safe  rather than risk taking, but I am confident that most readers picking it up will enjoy it.Just like another reviewer I found the ending a little disappointing.",
   'As the characters and plot begin to build up, I find myself empathising with the characters - their frustrations, anxiety and fear. And when the mysteries began to pile up, so did the action, thrill and tension. The plot twist near the end was not completely unexpected, but it was believable, exciting and really well done. Law, politics, crime and scandals - common plot devices made into a thrilling page-turner. ',
   'I read this book as it was one of the Richard and Judy Autumn Book Club choices. I enjoyed the writing style and the characters (even if some of them were a bit of a cliche), but I was a little disappointed in the ending. However, I would be interested to read more by this author.',
   'A good mystery/ thriller, but not the best.',
   '[(supposed) (hide spoiler)]',
   "This months book is actually part of a larger series, and it isn't the first book in that series. One member of the bookclub has read the previous books and she felt that this may have given her a little more insight into the characters. Everyone else felt that the book mostly stood as a book in its own right so could be read without investing the time needed to read all the books in the series.With regard to the fact that this part of a series, many of the bookclub members felt that they could have done with a bit more of a back story for most of the characters. However, maybe this was a writing device to make us want to read the other books to find out more about each of the characters. As with a lot of thriller novels the writer usually aims most of their writing skill at the plot, Hosp did this but he also seems to be aiming to have great characters as well. Maybe he should focus on one thing or the other to get a better novel.We thought that the main theme of this book was very obviously that of family. Whether blood relatives are more like family to us or those we choose to surround ourselves with in the form of friends. As with a lot of books that choose this as a theme we felt that friends turned out to be better family than actual relations. The only real divergence from this would be Koz and Lissa and their relationship with their child. However, in this book Koz and Lissa were very peripheral characters, they seemed to have taken a more central role in previous books.Throughout this thriller there were clues at the ending, but they were buried quite deeply and hidden very well with plenty of red herrings. Most of the bookclub tried to guess the ending but we were all completely off course at the very end. Overall we felt that it was a very interesting twist in the end of this tale.Overall we gave this book 7 out of 10. It wasn't a massively deep book, but it was entertaining and a good read for the summer holidays.",
   'A perfect thriller, my first book written by David Hosp and now I plan to read the rest of his books.  The book is a combination of crime investigation and some legal work. Starts as a murder investigation where an elderly woman, alone in the world is killed in her flat. Long, the detective, is an interesting character, efficient but with issues of his own.  Scot Finn, the lawyer to the organized crime, gets involved as we have many interesting twists about adoptions in the 60s, paternity determination, a crooked senator, mob boss and his crazed son. All combine to form a very pleasant, fast paced page turner.',
   "Scott Finn is a trial lawyer, a man who can help the most defenceless. But this all falls apart when it comes to light that his mother, who gave him up for adoption years ago has been murdered. Scott never knew Elizabeth, but he's determined to get justice for her. But why was she mixed up with the mob and a senator? Only Scott can find out. Overall this was a pretty twisty read, with some lovely gruesome scenes. Can't have a good crime book without them. That said I don't like it when books have had all the endings tied up neatly. Real life doesn't work like that, so why should books?Worth a read.",
   "I loved this. Can't believe it has been sat under my bed for years (hubbies side, he bought it). Just searching under the bed ....as you do...to find a book I have not read and BINGO! Not read a book by this author before but the blurb looked good so I delved in. Soooo glad I did, what a engrossing and gripping read. I can see that I have a few to catch up on as it's a series. No problem with that. This was just great as a stand alone...but I kinda want to go back and find out more. We all discover knew authors now and again and I'm glad that I found this one.",
   "I really enjoyed this book. A new author for me which is always a nice surprise. I love murder mysteries and like the additional story of his search for his Mother. Whether it would be useful to read in sequence I'm not sure of but it isn't necessary to have done so. Finn is a good character, trying to follow the line of dealing with good and bad at the same time. An Alex Cross type although Hosp's style is a bit more relaxed than James Patterson",
   'So, I wish I had read them in order, but it is not necessary. I enjoyed the Spenceresque story. I love reading books that take place in places I know well. A twisty murder mystery that keeps you reading until the very end.',
   '3.5. I preferred the earlier novels in the series that focused on Finn in his role as a lawyer. This one takes a different route, and while interesting, I wanted to see more of Finn cleverly representing clients.',
   "In the minority again but this really wasn't for me at all.Wish books would say if they were sequels because I really felt that I was starting in the middle of this and just couldn't get to grips with the characters at all.I ended up scanning alot of it else would have been a DNF",
   'too slow going and a bit gory for me. Very rare for me to not finish a book but gave up halfway through.',
   'Really enjoyed it and didnt expect the twist.',
   "7/10, VFM 18%. Well written, good plot, didn't work out the ending - characters good enough for a series. Will try more from Mr Hosp. Ps long read time because little free time moving office!",
   'Page Turner with open end for next episode ',
   'Highly enjoyable thriller ',
   'I really enjoyed this book. Good twists and turns and likeable characters. ',
   "Not really my thing. Frenetic action and multiple simultaneous threads. All the loose ends got tied up in the end, despite the author stating (through the Scott Finn character) that  in cases this messy  things didn't always get tied up!I didn't think it was  Brilliant and totally believable  as David Baldacci says on the cover. He is, however, the author of one of the worst books I've had to read in a book club - The Camel Club.I guess if you like John Grisham and the like then you might like this. I tried a Grisham and it was OK - a bit like this really. Won't bother with another!",
   'Awesome story! I was fascinated by it all, how Finn made it to the end, how he protected Sally in the alley when they were coming back from the dinner. Finn and Koz make a fantastic team, better than the other cops! Haha, it was really a thorough read, i enjoyed it so much. The base of the story really hits you later, making you sit and wonder for hours, about just how this is possible :PVery really sad, too.A must read for cop and crime lovers!',
   'From reading the plot summary this seemed like a book I would enjoy but when I started reading it I found it hard to read and quite tiresome however for some reason I persevered and after 100 pages this really picks up the pace and gets incredibly exciting and thrilling with plenty of twists to kepp you entertained. Okay, so this is not up there with Patterson or Child but this is still a very enjoyable read, so stick with it!',
   'I enjoyed the style n writing of this book. I thought the characters had enough depth n wanted to know more of their back stories. I enjoyed the pace of the book n was always picking it up. I found myself guessing major plot developments early in in the investigation. The ending was slightly predictable but I enjoyed reading it just the same. An easy read!',
   "I love all of David Hosp's books including this one! Although there wasn't a lot of  lawyering  happening, it was a great story and great getting to know the characters better! As always, looking forward to the next Finn installment! Mr. Hosp . . . please write faster!! LOL!!",
   "An Australian library book that I failed to finish before leaving for the airport. So I read the denouement and didn't miss the big chunk I missed out. Ripping Grishamesque yarn of everyday hotshot lawyers and really really mean criminals in the big city. ",
   'What a great story , well written and fast paced . It hooked me from the start after reading the prologue . There were a number of twists and turns throughout and a real surprise at the end .This book will be enjoyed by anyone who enjoys a mystery/thriller .'],
  '_version_': 1748857009273307136},
 {'id': '2717',
  'author': ['Christianna Brand'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "The vacationing Inspector Cockrill is on the job again when a fellow tourist is stabbed to death on a small Mediterranean island. The local police, in Cockrill's opinion, are illprepared for interrogating the tourload of suspects, she he takes it upon himself to confront these not-so-innocents abroad. The results, in high Brand-style, are both suspenseful and hilarious.",
  'genre': ['Mystery', 'Crime', 'Thriller', 'Mystery Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1436252055l/1024757.jpg',
  'isbn': '786703407',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1024757.Tour_de_Force',
  'page_count': '272',
  'rating': '3.77',
  'review_count': '23',
  'title': 'Tower of Strength',
  'rating_count': '122',
  'sensitivity': ['war', 'murder', 'outing', 'drugs', 'death'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['prime',
   'unique',
   'widow',
   'ordinary',
   'struggle',
   'complex',
   'dying',
   'top',
   'trick',
   'new',
   'rich',
   'famous',
   'smile',
   'brilliant',
   'reasonable',
   'magic',
   'enjoying',
   'spoiled',
   'rare',
   'fantastic',
   'classic',
   'funny',
   'sass',
   'wonderful',
   'blackmail',
   'mid',
   'modern',
   'worse',
   'worst',
   'unexpected',
   'interesting',
   'surprise',
   'fun',
   'best',
   'great',
   'twist',
   'different',
   'deliver',
   'heart',
   'diverse',
   'emotional',
   'shock',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'surprised',
   'witty',
   'dramatic',
   'irritating',
   'drag',
   'unforgettable',
   'attention',
   'absorbing',
   'entertaining',
   'light',
   'worth'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy'],
  'review': ["This is the sixth in the Inspector Cockrill mysteries, first published in 1955, and one I hadn't read before. It sees our dogged Inspector heading out on a conducted tour of Italy and, of course, his heart is softened by a young lady passenger, Louvaine Barker, a famous author. Also on the tour is Mr Cecil, the rather effeminate dress designer we first meet in,  Death in High Heels,  published back in 1941, Leo Rodd, a former concert pianist who lost an arm and attracts much female sympathy, his long-suffering wife, Helen, a spinster, named Miss Trapp, whose Park Lane address causes much speculation about her wealth, the vampish Vanda Lane and the flamboyant courier, Mr Fernando Gomez.  As the tour winds around Italy and ends up on the Island of San Juan el Pirata, there is, of course, a rising of tension and a murder. Much is made of the sneered at police work of the locals, who Brand has picking out suspects almost by turn, with the aim of locking up somebody in the damp ridden, ill guarded, prison on the island. Meanwhile, Cookie - at one point shut in a cell, but able to simply walk out as the local guard forgot to lock the door - decides he needs to discover who did the dreadful deed and get everyone back home.  Brand was an excellent crime writer, but her efforts are often over-looked as she has aged badly by modern sensibilities. Mr Cecil is a prime example of a character that was acceptable back in the time her novels were written (indeed British television had such characters long into the Seventies) but who now seems bizarrely stereotypical. In a way, it's a shame, as she wrote very entertaining mysteries and I was pleased to find Inspector Cockrill in this most unlikely location, even if he never seemed to enjoy his holiday very much. Indeed, he seemed to treat the whole event as an ill-advised whim, to be suffered through, until he finally reached home and, I am sure, much preferred being in a police station than a tour bus... ",
   "Inspector Cockrill is something of an Anglophile, his opinion of things and people foreign is not very high. But somehow he still manages to get himself on a conducted tour of the continent. And when, on their island resort of San Juan el Pirata, with a disparate bunch of companions, a young woman from their party is murdered, he initially finds himself one of the main suspects; he is far from happy. But when the local Gerente discover that he is from 'Scotlanda Yarda', he moves down the suspects' pecking order and becomes more heavily involved in trying to discover the perpetrator of the crime. Needless to say, his travelling companions are all on the suspects' list. And they all seem to have something to hide and all seem to have their hidden reasons for committing the crime. There is always simmering tension lurking just below the surface and it mounts considerably as the suspects become more menacing. But Cockrill is determined and, overcoming great difficulties and many obstacles and ignoring red herrings, he eventually unravels the mystery, much to the relief of the Gerente. And, after it is all wrapped up, most importantly for himself he makes a heartfelt decision for the future … 'Holidays at Home'! Christianna Brand's characterisation is first-class and she sets the mystery up in a very Agatha Christie manner all of which helps the novel to live up to its title.",
   "C: Just, wow. There's something about Christianna Brand's work that is gleefully trashy, but often she simply cannot help herself from amping things up to the nth degree of melodrama, and this is sadly an example of that. Full of intolerable characters you would certainly never want to meet in real life, there is nevertheless a certain charm to this mystery, with its plotted-out, compact beach cove setting providing an interesting alibi puzzle of sorts. There's also a decent mix of potential types of motive for the killing, even if many of the romantic tangles feel very soapy. Similar in denouement to Nicholas Blake's vastly superior  The Widow's Cruise  (1959), which at least feels measured and justifiable, Brand's approach to the eventual reveal of the who and why of the murder is  gotcha!  writing of the silliest order -- guessable but in no way plausible -- and actually made me furious. Rather surprised that many seem to have given this messy effort a pass, but you can safely consider me not among its fans.",
   "some of christianna brand's books are brilliant, but maybe i'm just losing my taste for them. spoiler alert: this book asks you to believe that an ordinary human being can commit a murder on the spur of the moment and then, in about 2 hours, decide to disguise the murder victim as herself and to  become  the murder victim. This entails rinsing off hair dye and removing false eyelashes from the corpse and dying her own hair, putting on makeup,etc. Now really... ",
   "[Influence of Christie's  Evil under the Sun  (1941) is unmistakable; compare also Blake's  The Widow's Cruise  (1959).  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "I thought this started strong - Inspector Cockrill on holiday with a group of British tourists exploring Italy, and ending up on the fictional island on San Juan El Piratta. Following a murder of one of the group, Cockrill has to navigate through the totally corrupt and haphazard legal system of the island and the fact that everyone has something to hide.  Great concept and some very light and humorous writing from Brand, that made me smile if not giggle more than once. That said, this book lost me a bit somewhere in the middle where is seemed to drag and repeat itself in a mildly irritating way.  A moderately good read, but not up to some of Brand's other work. ",
   "Tour de Force cements Christianna Brand, in my estimation, as one of the very few Golden Age mystery writers that could hold their own with Agatha Christie. Christie wrote mysteries that frequently had the power to shock in the final pages, as a network of clues suddenly came together in one inevitable but wholly unforeseen conclusion. It's a very rare gift, and though Brand was considerably less prolific than Christie, she clearly possessed it in similar quantities. Demerits first: One, this was a bear to get into. My interest didn't pick up until a small ways after the (first?) murder, which doesn't occur for 60 pages. This is typical of Christie as well, but this beginning felt like more of a slog (on the flip side, I read the final 130 pages in one breathless sitting). Second, I had the murderer pegged 50 pages before the reveal. So there was no final shock going on for me. I watched some final reader manipulations from backstage, so to speak. That said, the puzzle pieces fit together really well. The mystery is 100% fair. When I had the solution, I knew I was right because it fit in a way that nothing else would. And up to that point, Brand did a wonderful job of managing reader expectations and suspicions such that I really had no idea which way was up- there's some really fantastic misdirection here, and I would have fallen for some of the last bit if I'd been just a tad less experienced as an armchair sleuth. As for the other reviews on here, I 1) be careful- there's a review here with a very visible spoiler that will ruin the entire book. 2) don't understand folks reading this and complaining about dramatic payoff. It's a fair-play golden age mystery. How did this get on your reading list without understanding that fact? The sub-genre regularly shunts the reader out to the back cover once the solution has been revealed. Because the puzzle is the thing. Anyway, if the puzzle is YOUR thing, I think you'll be pretty durn satisfied here. Another score for Christianna Brand.",
   "This, a mystery in the classic tradition, is notable for the unusually high stakes for discovering the murderer's identity. The setting is a politically backward island (fictional) off the coast of Italy, where a member of an eight-person tour is murdered. Local officials find it imperative that the culprit be found and executed as soon as possible to avoid a blow to their tourist trade. Unfortunately, this is not an easy matter, and each of the remaining tour members, including Inspector Cockrill, face the ugly prospect of being selected as a scapegoat. The unfolding of this tense situation is masterful, but the denouement insufficiently follows through with the various personal dramas. Here Miss Brand shares the plight of many mystery writers who create moving personal dilemmas, but fail to resolve them as satisfactorily as the solution to the mystery. ",
   "Wow. Can't believe I'm using a pun but what a tour de force of a book. Starts out a fairly standard (and satisfying!) Christie-esque thriller with a murder among a bunch of tourists on an exotic European vacation. Then it proceeds to deliver a brilliant, sledgehammer series of twists back to back unlike anything I've experienced except perhaps in Murder on the Orient Express. Immensely memorable and intricately plotted, this should be way more famous than it is ",
   'For my full review click on the link below: https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...',
   'A particularly good version of the Golden Age British mystery novel that turns a lot of tropes on their heads. But. Not exactly a pillar of political correctness.',
   "Rather unfortunately, I went into this title fully well knowing the solution. More specifically, I knew that there was a surprise part of the solution and I knew what said  surprise  was, although there were other parts of the solution which I still didn't know. Alas, this made it rather easy to figure out the rest of these details, although there were a couple things I had overlooked. On the whole, though, my reading experience was tainted by having been spoiled for it and really the only silver lining of this was that I got to see just how expertly this mystery is clued. The problem Brand presents here is puzzling: A woman stabbed in her hotel room, with no locked doors or anything, but still a couple of strange details. However, Inspector Cockrill, being one of the unlucky few people on this specific trip, has seen each of the six suspects on the beach outside the entire time between the victim's last appearance and the discovery of the body - in other words, a foolproof alibi for everyone. And Cockie, despite being jailed at one point by the local police, is not the killer. Of course, Brand weaves her authorial magic and makes each suspect not just a character but a real person, even if some flashes of the written character come through. Leo Rodd is clearly this book's Gervase Eden, the not-physically-perfect guy (in this case an amputee) who still manages to be an unwilling (or in this case pretty willing) girl magnet. But this time he has a wife, Helen, whose mannerisms concerning her husband's adultery make her one of the most interesting characters of them all. Then we have Mr. Cecil, a recurring character who is an unabashedly gay clothing designer, Miss Trapp, a secretive woman who falls for Mr. Fernando the robust but sensitive tour guide, and finally Louvaine  Louli  Barker, a witty and caring writer who falls for Leo. Rounding out this group are Cockie himself, humorously like a fish out of water in this new setting, and Vanda Lane - the victim, who is a snarky student of human nature, and, it turns out, a blackmail addict. You really can't help but care for all of these people, even if the level of not-wanting-anyone-to-actually-be-the-killer is not a great as in Green for Danger. The setting here is one of the highlights of the whole book. The (fictional) island nation of San Juan el Pirata (apparently situated somewhere near Corsica and Sardinia). With a dictatorial hereditary leader, an incompetent police force just looking for anyone to stick into jail so that they can look competent, a distinct lack of forensic analysis, and a uniquely booming tourism/smuggling business, the island really is just as much of a character as the six suspects, and the unique situation this provides in regards to the crime is very interesting. Of course, the solution is not only one of Brand's characteristic emotional tugs as you slowly realize the full toll of the consequences of the killer's actions. But Brand takes it a step further, really making you retake everything that's happened since the murder. If I had not known the ending beforehand, this one probably would have completely fooled me, or at least it would have taken a long time to realize what was really going on. The who is as dazzling as it was in Green for Danger, the how should have been obvious in hindsight, and the reason psychologically sound but still unexpected. On top of that and the one big twist, there were a couple of other little twists in this aspect that I hadn't foreseen, including one thing that reminded me of a certain Ellery Queen, which I won't name here. Overall, this really is a good mystery, and clearly one of Brand's best written. I'm sure it would have been a five if I hadn't known the ending, but alas, it was not meant to be so. So it goes.",
   "[ This book pulls the most brazen false-solution trick I've ever seen - it shows you exactly how it was done, playing completely fair, yet you're as taken in as the characters! Yes, it was Vanda Lane impersonating Louli, but I honestly didn't see that at all, and thought it was just a most ingenious false solution. Even the Leo Rodd solution was good, using his one arm so well.   (hide spoiler) ]",
   'I did like this, but found it different from those books before, as it read like one of the farcical holiday comedies that they put on TV. Inspector Cockrill, takes a foreign holiday on one of those tours of Italy. His group of travelers include various characters, ranging from some very rich and apparently well-known, to those lesser known like himself. As quite often happens, the holidaymakers begin to pair off. Eventually their tour comes to San Juan el Pirata, an island that is ruled by one man they call The Duke. The whole island relies on tourists buying smuggled goods, from novelties to tobacco and drugs, the police being one of the major parties to the smuggling. Unfortunately, there a murder is committed and Cockrill finds himself to be one of the major suspects. As the police are not so much interested in who actually is the murderer, soon, one by one each of his party becomes suspected, with the penalty being that they would be hanged or worse still left in a prison unfit for human survival. We are taken through the various stories of how each of them could have had the opportunity of murdering the victim.  All in all, it was a fun read with some very comical scenarios.',
   '[No one-armed man can lift a dead body up off of the floor onto a bed by himself.   (hide spoiler) ]',
   "Christianna Brand is another author to add to me 'always buy when I spot her books' list. Compared to the classics, she has quite a brittle style. It's all bright angles and post-war sass and plenty of insight on make-up and 50s fashion, but she also describes her seedy holiday destination setting and her cast of characters with a gloriously over-the-top technicolour palette. Obviously mingled with a large dollop of let's say trad  europhobia ... By comparison our hero, Inspector Cockrill, is a dowdy and downey bird. Thrown onto his resources to solve a murder on holiday in the face of local corruption and a medieval police force, there's a nice nod to Poirot has he has to exercise his grey cells rather than being able to collect any actual evidence. It's got all the elements of a classic crime story: a map, loads of suspects, red herrings, a love interest and a brilliant twist at the end.  It's a crazy book and well worth digging out, if not for the story itself then for her bonkers biog on the back of the Green Penguin editions.",
   "A well-plotted whodunit. If you're paying attention, you can figure the guilty party. A group of British tourists are on a group tour in Italy. While staying at an island off the coast of Italy that is its own little countr4y, one of the group is murdered. The problem is that none of the seven suspects seems to have had the opportunity, though most of them had a motive. The local police are more interested in finding someone to pin the blame on, rather than find the guilty party. So one of the group, a grumpy detective inspector, leads the investigation. As a puzzle, it was an interesting enough read, but none of the characters stick with you.",
   "Lots of humor in this mystery as Cockie is on the world's worse vacation that he wasn't enjoying even before the murder. The (hopefully) imaginary island where the group is stranded is every traveler's worse nightmare: a law onto itself only interested in apprehending someone for the murder and any tourist will do. But Cockie knows how to interview the locals: speak English loudly and add an 'a' to the end of the word. Maybe resort to pantomime.",
   'In my opinion Christianna Brand can be a bit hit and miss but her best is as good as any of her Golden Age contemporaries. A cracking little mystery where Inspector Cockrill finds himself involved a murder case when on holiday in the Mediterranean. Brand captures the holiday experience abroad with a feeling post war affluence.',
   'Brilliant written crime story. Very well plotted and with a small cast of characters, the reader is sent backwards and forwards between the suspects. Written in 1957 this holds up very well and has a reasonable diverse set of people, and interesting relationships. The ending is great!',
   "Wow my first Christianna Brand and it was so good! She's been called the American Agatha Christie and I can see why. The New York Times review on the back promised and end you wouldn't see coming, and I didn't. I can't wait to read more Brand. ",
   "I *know* it's melodramatic, that it was written in the 50's. Even knowing that, I could barely stomach these characters' motivations. The way the plot revolved around women falling in love with this prime example of The Worst Kind of Mid-Century Toxic Masculinity? So gross.",
   'So good.',
   'Synopsis: vacationing Inspector Cockrill is on the job again when one of his fellow tourists is stabbed to death on a small Mediterranean island.',
   "A bit too convoluted; not as good as 'Green for Danger'. ",
   "A very good British mystery with enough complications to make a juggler struggle to keep up.  Inspector Cockrill, while on a vacation that he soon regrets taking, has to solve a strange murder case in order to free himself and his fellow tour gtoup from a island paradise that isn't so heavenly.",
   'My first Inspector Cockrill mystery and I loved it! The cast of characters on this little tour of Italy are absolutely unforgettable and the clever story moves right along at a crisp pace. Very, very funny, too.',
   'Sometimes dragging but I liked the plot and story. All the good mystery formula is in here.',
   'Brand creates amazingly complex plots. Absorbing, though some of the characters are less believeable.',
   "Inspector Cockrill's 6th outing is a treat!"],
  '_version_': 1748856889110691840},
 {'id': '25696',
  'author': ['Susan R. Sloan'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': 'More than 200 people--including children--are killed when an extremist bombs a Seattle family clinic. A naval officer is arrested and attorney Dana McAuliffe is assigned to defend him. A conspiracy soon brews from the case--with Dana as an unwitting pawn.',
  'genre': ['Fiction', 'Mystery', 'Thriller', 'Legal Thriller'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1344266406l/1239502.jpg',
  'isbn': '446524514',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1239502.Act_of_God',
  'page_count': '544',
  'rating': '3.96',
  'review_count': '27',
  'title': 'Act of God',
  'rating_count': '283',
  'sensitivity': ['abortion', 'murder'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['popular',
   'hated',
   'recommend',
   'brilliant',
   'fascinating',
   'worth',
   'wonderful',
   'simplistic',
   'interesting',
   'average',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'surprising',
   'surprise',
   'best',
   'great',
   'touching',
   'special',
   'hooked',
   'easy',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'cliches',
   'captivated',
   'entertaining',
   'drama',
   'dull',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["Wow, can't wait to read another of Susan's books.",
   'What an excellent book! This had me captivated from the first chapter and held me until the last full stop. Abortion is a very emotive subject and whilst the legal drama in this story was fascinating, the background of this extremely personal and female subject was well presented. I found my loyalties strongly challenged throughout the story and the characterisation was brilliant. An excellent read!',
   'The discription given here is incorrect. Act Of God is about the boming of a health center that also does abortions. It is avery good courtroom drama with surprising twists.',
   'Lov her books. Wish she wrote more. This was a reread',
   "I found this courtroom drama fully engaging and was hooked by the characters and the situation. A hospital plus abortion clinic is blown up, killing over a hundred people, including newborn infants and a child daycare. The suspect on trial is the opposite of a typical terrorist, and there is plenty pf shoddy police work in the investigation due to pressure to find and punish the culprit. Told from multiple poiunts of view, the main character is the brilliant young attorney who represents him, and she is completely convinced of his innocence and dedicated to exonerating him. Is she wrong? Or have they charged the right man, despite all appearances? This book kept me up reading half the night, unable to put it down. I loved the book, but found the ending a little depressing - you'll have to read it to find out why.",
   "Hill House is a community health center near Seattle that also provides abortions. It is bombed and almost 200 people are killed, many of them children and health care professionals. The accused is a religious, clean cut naval officer whose wife had an abortion without telling him, for which he is understandably upset.  This is a legal thriller like the best of John Grisham. It also gives a very good analysis of both sides of the abortion debate, as well as the nasty sides of politics when they use a case like this. There is a surprise ending you won't see coming that doesn't show up until the final 2 pages. My first book by Susan Sloan, but definitely not my last. ",
   'Average courtroom drama with simplistic writing and  flat  characters. No real surprises here as I had determined what probably happened about half way through the book. Dana was as dull as dish water and easily duped evidently. And Corey was nauseatingly nice. An easy read. ',
   'Very interesting read. Wow at the ending',
   "Act of God Good read. Great court room drama, well worth it. And why would a review request so many words. I don't think I will bother next time!!!",
   "I devoured this book in a day, I couldn't put it down. I'm still thinking about the ending!",
   '4.5 All her books are just great. So sorry I have read all 4 and there are no more left. The trial of a man accused of bombing a hospital that also does abortions. ',
   'Wonderful read......I think I could have finished it in a day had I not had other things to do. ',
   '3.5 stars',
   "Courtroom drama. A bit too many cliches, and not too special, it still was entertaining. I wouldn't recommend it, though. If you want to read a courtroom drama for entertainment, some of Grisham's books, to name an example, are more exciting.",
   'The book is excitingly written. The ending was a bit abrupt, I would have liked more details.',
   "Wow - what an excellent book. This really isn't something I would have chosen myself, but it was sent to me free, so thought I'd give it a go. I'm really glad I did! When a bomb goes off at a family clinic, killing over a hundred people, the whole crime becomes a worldwide debate focused almost entirely on the abortions that were performed there. When Dana is given the job of defending the man accused of it, she finds that it is herself that is being put on trial amongst the world's press. And if that wasn't enough, she begins to feel as if she isn't being filled in on the whole picture. A fast, snappy read - no great surprises, but I was hooked from the beginning. I loved the way we kept hearing from the jurers as well as the lawyers, and how the story progressed along with the trial. Made me quite sad to think that the issue became bigger than the accused, but I guess that was what the author was trying to put across. I'll definitely be tracking down the other books by this author. ",
   "Susan R. Sloan wrote a suspenseful legal thriller that keeps the readers guessing. Attorney Dana McAuliffe reluctantly takes on the defense of a man accused of bombing a popular Seattle medical center where abortions are performed. The book presents varying opinions and ideas about the subject matter, offering moral and legal questions as the trial goes on. However, it should be noted that this book was not a soapbox for or against abortions. Both sides of the issue were presented with tact and thoughtfulness meanwhile touching upon the extremes people can go to for what they believe in. Conspiracy, deception, murder, and politics play a part in this thrilling novel as the story unfolds. Although the ending did not come as a surprise, it was still worth getting to in the end. I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Sloan's style of writing, her ease with the subject matter and her avoidance of weighing the book down with technicalities. ",
   "Wow! Didn't expect this book to be so awesome.... I read mostly mysteries but fill in with an occasional legal thriller, romantic suspence, etc. This is the BEST legal thriler I have ever read. I know there are many out there but, of the one's I've read, this is tops.  Would highly recommend it.",
   'Again, a good beach read.',
   'Thoroughly enjoyed this novel. It was a very quick read, one where I hated to put the book down. The end was a true surprise. I would recommend it to anyone, regardless of their preferences.',
   'great book!',
   'Sloan, Susan R.',
   'Well written, fast placed, great ending. Had me thinking about it for a while after reading.',
   'Perfectly good suspense novel that (annoyingly) seemed to have a moral lesson towards the end.',
   ' Good Story ! Better ending!!',
   "It really does spur one's thinking on morality.",
   'What a pager turner. I kept changing my mind as to his guilt or innocence right to the end. '],
  '_version_': 1748857571169533953},
 {'id': '29752',
  'author': ['David Hosp'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': 'Two Washington, DC police detectives take on the power elite and unravel the secrets behind a brutal murder.',
  'genre': ['Fiction', 'Thriller', 'Mystery', 'Crime'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1344271461l/1280291.jpg',
  'isbn': '446615110',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1280291.The_Betrayed',
  'page_count': '445',
  'rating': '3.76',
  'review_count': '49',
  'title': 'The Betrayed',
  'rating_count': '511',
  'sensitivity': ['war', 'murder', 'drugs', 'torture', 'death', 'eugenics'],
  'pacing': 'medium',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'hated',
   'period',
   'appealing',
   'predictable',
   'new',
   'brutal',
   'fantastic',
   'enjoyable',
   'powerful',
   'quirky',
   'modern',
   'regret',
   'worse',
   'cliche',
   'interesting',
   'complicated',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'best',
   'great',
   'terrible',
   'different',
   'forgettable',
   'emotional',
   'struggling',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'dark',
   'torture',
   'drag',
   'attention',
   'entertaining',
   'worth'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["“Black Water Rising” by Attica Locke, published by Harper Collins. Category - Mystery/Thriller Publication Date - 2009. The 1960's were a turbulent time in the United States. Racial Equality, Women's Rights, and the Vietnam War were just a few of the reasons for this unsettling time. Jay Porter is a black lawyer that is struggling to make ends meet. It seems his best client so far is a prostitute who is ready to settle against his wishes. Jay's life only gets worse when he saves a drowning woman that leads to an investigation that opens up his past life. His life now becomes entangled in a murder and a work stoppage by black longshoremen for equal wages. This is further complicated by his father-in-law who is a preacher and supporting the work stoppage and Jay's wife who is now pregnant.  Jay finds his life in mortal danger as he gets deeper into the murder mystery, and more importantly he finds his wife could also be endangered.  Jay becomes involved with the FBI, his past, and the upper class of Houston society, business, and politics. Jay must come to terms with himself and decide whether to pursue a course that could undermine his life or stay the course and be safe. A very good period piece that adds mystery to social upheaval.",
   "This book really kept me intrigued until the final chapters and then the ending was kinda  blah . A Washington DC journalist ends up murdered after researching unethical procedures that were done on mentally challenged patients in the 50's and 60's. Is her family somehow involved or is it coincidental? Several more murders take place during the investigation.",
   "This is my first by David Hosp and it will not be my last. Even though I found his writing sometimes melodramatic, it did not get in the way of a stelar story. It's a great plot and well told even with the underestimating of his readers.",
   "Published in 2006, this book has an eerie connection to today's vaccine-crazy world. Well-written and intriguing-although I really wish people wouldn't fall into bed with mere acquaintances so quickly.",
   'Eye-opening read',
   'An easy read, with just enough twists',
   'Easy quite enjoyable read, slightly flat ending.',
   'Good detective story. Enough twists to keep us amused. What we need now, is for him to write more',
   'Timely',
   'Enjoyably cliche lol - 3 stars',
   'My first David Hosp read.. Enjoyed it.. Good flow of words, no unnecessary dragging of storyline.. ',
   'Well written, intriguing premise, excellent narrator. An entertaining listen by an author new to me.',
   "Great book! Great mystery! Great imagery! I could really picture it being acted out. Not the biggest fan on how the ending was tied up, that's the only reason it didn't get 5 stars. ",
   '2.5 stars. Not on the level of the other political/police thriller writers that I typically read. I hated the romance, no one wants that! ',
   'Takes you into the dirty ride of politics.',
   "I always enjoy reading books set in D.C. Settling into the dark gritty streets of the city always makes me feel like I have been transported to Gotham City and I wait to see the Dark Knight lurking around the corner. It's my love of D.C.'s grime that drew me to The Betrayed and made it such an entertaining read that kept me engaged from beginning to end.  There was a parade of characters that marched across the pages, each unique - telling the story from their point of view. Even the bad guys had their turn telling you their story! Sergeant Deter Train and Detective Jack Cassian are the well-intentioned D.C. police officers assigned to the gruesome murder of Elizabeth Creay. The police officers were as different as night and day, typical of partners in this kind of tale, but the author kept their relationship and back-stories from feeling overly stale or hackneyed. I felt comfortable with both of them immediately, savored the snarky humor both Deter and Jack shared, and appreciated the dedication they had to their jobs and the people in their lives. The Chapin/Creay Women - Lydia, Elizabeth, Sydney and Amanda were intriguing. Although Amanda featured early, it was Lydia and Sydney who represented the women most strongly. The loss of Elizabeth was a blow felt by all the women very deeply and very differently. Lydia Chapin the iron-willed matriarch was the rock that her daughters and grand daughter crashed against. Lydia was unflappable and she had my sympathy most of all, because in the midst of a terrible tragedy and loss, Lydia's motherly instincts were smothered by her sense of propriety. No parent ever wants to bury his or her child, but for Lydia Chapin, burying her first-born child was another engagement penned into her planner. Sydney felt the most loss, as she mourned the death of a sister whom she'd grown apart from. The two women were just beginning to rekindle their sisterly bonds, when the unthinkable happened. Now Sydney is left with thoughts of what could have been. Sydney's involvement in the investigation of her sister's death did not have as direct a path as I would have liked. She seemed to fall into the investigation by sheer happenstance and through very unconventional and almost improbable means. Of particular interest to me was the fact that with the exception of the two police officers in the case, all the male characters in the story were nefarious beings in one way or another. For each reveal that David Hosp deigned to give, there was another mystery waiting to take its place. And while the story could have survived without it, the romance between Jack and Sydney was a nice side story that did not detract from the main tale. All in all, The Betrayed was a great read. Pop culture read that accomplishes the task of entertaining you and engaging you. Not a book for my physical or virtual bookshelf - this was a library read, but if you come across it in the marked down section of your local bookstore, you won't regret picking it up. 3 of 5 stars",
   "This book was well..just okay..I must admit on reflection there were some parts I really found interesting however all together it didnt keep my interest as well as I had hoped and there were some parts I really feel could and should have been expounded upon seriously...Okay so this book is about Sydney, the rebellious and fiercely independent youngest child of a multimillion dollar powerful family down the street literally from my current residence the political playground Washington D.C...Alright so Sydney returns home to her domineering mother under tragic circumstances as her older sister has been brutally tortured and murdered with her only daughter fourteen year old Amanda being the one to find her. Not being that close to her sister until later in life Sydney is grieving and trying to piece together why this horrible senseless act happened to her sister though she was a hard hitting investigative reporter who made her share of enemies..Thrust in the investigation of her sisters's death there is romance, suspense, political and medical coverups and some pretty shady characters but not explained enough to really get me involved you know..The information on eugenics was pretty interesting and should have been explored more with the research and history but I appreciated the lesson I did receive...Overall the motive and big reveal character were alitle weak and could have used some more attention but I did finish it quickly thanks to the large font but wasnt really satisfied, easily forgettable..on to the next..",
   "In Washington, D.C., Sydney Chapin learns that her elder sister, a journalist, has been murdered. There are marks of torture indicating that the killer was after information. Detective Sergeant Darius Train and Det. Jack Cassain are assigned to the case. Cassain is dealing with the emotional burden of his brother's shooting, when he was on the police force. Now his brother is non responsive in a convalescent home. Sydney had borrowed her sister's laptop computer and she traces her sister's last searches. She learns that her sister was doing a story about a mental institution for children and the abuses that occurred there many years ago. In a well plotted story with appealing and believable characters, the writing grabs the reader's interest and holds it as the search for the killer is mounted. What was Sydney's sister doing that caused her death? Could the police fight through the political implications to find a killer among the wealthy and influential in Washington, D.C.? What were the risks tha Sydney would be taking in attempting to find her sister's killer, before the killer found Sydney? These questions need to be answered. Sydney and Det. Cassain eventually work together to hunt the killer in this enjoyable story.",
   "It was a fantastic read. I thoroughly enjoyed myself. Definitely a page-turner - I couldn't bear to put down the book, and the twists and subplots only added to the thrill. Quirky characters (read: Antonia) that come alive and making me fall in love with them despite making an appearance for a few pages are a plus. However, after finishing the book, I find that the sense of satisfaction - or something - I always experience after reading a book missing. It wasn't that the the ending was poorly done, but I just didn't feel the impact of the ending that I feel when it all comes to a close - even if some endings never do have a closure. Perhaps because I just wanted to get through the book, I missed the impact of the ending instead. Now I'm left feeling... Cheated. But i gotta say, I love the characters and the plot, and I have not regretted reading this book.",
   "Unlike most of Hosp's books, this one doesn't feature Scott Finn and his colleagues -- in fact lawyers play no real part in the story at all. This is a straightforward crime story, with the main protagonists being a pair of cops, the criminals, the evil people who hire them, their victims and (as usual) the politicians who get in the way of solving the crimes. I also missed the local color of Boston that pervades the Scott Finn stories, this one being set in DC. Nevertheless, apart from a lack of legal shenanigans, this is a typical David Hosp story, complete with a trail of dead bodies and a couple of hair-raising close calls. A quick read and good entertainment, but I keep hoping that Hosp will give us another Scott Finn story.",
   "A legal thriller I read in the hospital while recovering from surgery. I accused my wife of supplying this random paperback as a joke based on the author's name, David Hosp). Enjoyable thriller, though not particularly memorable (or perhaps that is a result of the drugs). Legal thriller - Washington, D.C. homicide team of Darius Train and Jack Cassian investigate the brutal killing of the reporter daughter of the extremely wealthy, politically connected matriarch of the Chapin family. They are fed false leads and warned off looking at the family. Sydney Chapin, law-student sister of the victim, is attracted to Cassian and wants to help investigate.",
   "Not as good as Dark Harbor, but it does have its strengths. I learned something about the development of polio vaccine that I didn't know before. The last 1/3 is the best. Sometimes there is just too much description: almost every time a main character goes through a door, there will be 3 paragraphs of what the new room looks like.... The villain was very predictable, the only mysteries were how was everything else going to get tied together and how was the heroine going to escape danger one more time.",
   'Decent story and great plot line. Not a lot of twists, but a good, decent story. A few factual errors in the first chapter about the city makeup. But then again I live in DC and the errors just stared me in the face. Other than that and a minor spelling mistake at the end, it still remains a decent read.',
   'I picked this book at random, knowing nothing about it or the author. It was an excellent read. The plot was no more inplausible than most and the main characters were distinct in voice an actions. Even the unmasking of the  evil  mastermind was OK, if somewhat predictable (although for a few pages I was starting to second guess who I though it was).',
   "Sydney Capin's sister is brutally murdered. D. C. Detectives Cassain and Train are assigned to the case. Sydney feels compelled to investigate the murder as much as she can with her own resources. Soon, Sydney's life is being threatened. The list of possible suspects keeps changing. This is an intriguing story with many twists and turns. It is well worth reading.",
   "I liked but didn't love this. It was clear early on who the perpetrator was to me even though it was apparently quite mind boggling to the main characters. The daughter was the most interesting character but she disappeared after the first two chapters — and the meaning of her premonition was never really explained. ",
   'The story starts off as an old fashioned crime thriller but goes on to develop into a more complicated modern day version. A fair amount of information on eugenics is thrown in as a bonus.  This is my first book by David Hosp and I like his style of story telling.',
   'Loved it , well formed and new enough that it had more modern feel , use of computers , cell phones etc. Plot kept me guessing through out , thought the characters were well thought out and the use of a modern city really added to the read . Will definitely be looking for more David Hosp books . ',
   "I found this book to be a drag to read. The characters were unsophisticated, especially the heroine, and the plot lines were hackneyed and predictable. By the time I got to the end, I didn't care who the villain was, and I didn't completely finish it.",
   "Very good story about a wealthy family who's daughter (grown) was killed. First they think it was a robbery, then the ex husband, then it turns out to be because the mother's business had to do with mental hospitals and experimenting on patients and she was writing a newspaper article about it."],
  '_version_': 1748857615286272000}]