[{'id': '31605',
  'author': ['Jonathan Hickman',
   'Greg Tocchini',
   'Steve Epting',
   'Barry Kitson'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "The War of Four Cities escalates, and we learn what it is that the FF fears most! The Future Foundation is caught in the middle as the war expands to encompass the entire Marvel Universe! Plus: Black Bolt is back and is determined to reclaim his throne. Ben Grimm returns to the pages of the FF as Ronan the Accuser and the armies of the Kree empire invade the earth! A Galactic empire is born as the war of Four Cities comes to a close. What does it mean for Marvel's First Family?,Collecting,: ,FF, 6-11",
  'genre': ['Sequential Art',
   'Comics',
   'Graphic Novels',
   'Superheroes',
   'Marvel',
   'Graphic Novels Comics',
   'Fiction',
   'Science Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1486034707l/12970589._SY475_.jpg',
  'isbn': '785157697',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12970589-ff-volume-2',
  'page_count': '144',
  'rating': 3.76,
  'review_count': 69,
  'title': 'FF, Volume 2',
  'rating_count': 960,
  'sensitivity': ['war', 'fire'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['hated',
   'boring',
   'mythology',
   'epic',
   'period',
   'top',
   'new',
   'fascinating',
   'reasonable',
   'magic',
   'hate',
   'fantastic',
   'poor',
   'powerful',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'worth',
   'important',
   'chaotic',
   'damage',
   'complicated',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'surprising',
   'indifferent',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'surprise',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'touching',
   'twist',
   'bland',
   'special',
   'emotional',
   'explosive',
   'easy',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'lack',
   'bothers',
   'tea',
   'biased',
   'perfect',
   'spoilers',
   'familiar',
   'alien',
   'dramatic',
   'office',
   'captured',
   'cliffhanger',
   'universal',
   'unexpected',
   'forward',
   'dull',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["FF Vol. 2 collects issues #6-11. The Kree have been planning their conquest by creating 'seed worlds' where experiments have been ongoing; now Ronan the Accuser is tasked with starting a war that is linked to an ancient Kree prophecy. You get a feeling that it is all collateral damage - that Supremor does not care how many worlds have to be destroyed in furtherance of his objectives. I have reviewed issues #6-11 individually. ",
   "At the conclusion of Realm of Kings Black Bolt was missing and presumed dead. Guess who's back?   So this volume of FF was hijacked by the continuation of the Inhumans story Realm of Kings. Why Marvel didn't allow the story to finish with its own title is beyond me, but I'm glad the story was told somewhere. I have to imagine FF fans weren't pleased with two entire issues dedicated to Black Bolt's return and the Inhumans.  So Black Bolt's back and he's ready to return to Earth, perhaps because he has more wives awaiting his arrival. Immediately arriving on Earth the Inhumans rough up some Reed Richards from the multiverse. Meanwhile The Kree with Ronan the Accuser once again leading them have plans of their own. FF volume 2 wasn't anything special, but it was good to see what happened to the Inhumans after the Realm of Kings storyline.",
   "Nice bit of mythology Hickman & co make at the start of this book, what with metagenesis as the forebearer of all these weird races that swirl around the Marvel U. (Dunno how much of this has already been thought of and how much is Hickman's invention, but it's the first I've seen of it.) Tocchini's art in the first couple of chapters is hard to 'read' - not sure if recurring costumes & faces are meant to be the same person or it's just because he doesn't draw all that clearly. I haven't kept up with Inhumans plots through the Marvel U - is all this grandeur a result of years-long struggles, or is this an instantaneous climax of something we didn't know about? I saw them show up in one of the recent Marvel events, but there too it felt like a hint or fragment of a story that - if it was being told, it wasn't anywhere I had stumbled across. Overall, this story left me feeling pretty flat on Hickman. Yes, there's lots of universe-threatening movement, and all the big players that Hickman has been amassing over the years are coming out to play. But something about it feels almost...boring to me. Compare it with what came in the early days of Hickman's run - Reed going off to otherworlds to play with big boys and big toys (beyond even his ambitions and imagination), visitors from the future hinting at big destinies for the Reed kids... Maybe the problem is we see all the pieces on the board now, and there's nothing else waiting in the wings. (Not to mention that - with all of the supervillians brought to bear in the big fight, somehow it just felt like they were all standing around waving their arms and emoting their usual catchphrases, but ultimately their contribution could've been exceeded by a small army of Herbies.) Second reading, Feb 2015: what I *do* like, however, is Sue Reed. In Hickman's run, she is self-assured, operates independently of her family and takes charge - in ways the  boob window  Sue would never dream. Same with Black Bolt's wives (or at least Medusa) - takes no shit from people and creatures around her. ",
   "It starts with the arrival of the Inhumans and we see where they have been, the resurrection of Black bolt and his five wives and then the war with Forever city and so many fall and it's great to see Black Bolt unleash his all at them and how Reed and his new FF is faring against them. Somewhere on Hala Ronan the Regent makes his plans meanwhile the Cult of Annihilus prepare for their masters arrival on earth. Things are getting tense as the big war is coming and Reed will have to Marshall all forces in a final war and so some friends come in maybe 👀 It's such a great volume and expands the scope of other things and ties into other events in Marvel at the time and shows the breadth of these events and the inter galactic nature of it too. Reed surrounded with so many things and learning to not go at it alone is a character evolution for sure. Also the art is just perfect, the lines and the coloring and the way it just pops is perfect.",
   "My least favorite volume in the series. Heavy on Inhumans and little FF involvement until the last two issues.  This is probably why I haven't read any Inhumans. Such convoluted mythology. The Supremor, whose metagenesis plan succeeds, destroys nearly all the genesis worlds once he freaks out and discovers that he's fallible and one of his own creations will kill him.  Now there's total war that I can't even keep track of. Inhumans versus Inhumans versus Earthlings versus...?",
   "Dull, dull Inhumans hijack this volume of FF. Who likes those guys? I don't. But they show up and completely steal the spotlight from the Future Foundation. Not cool, Hickman. Not cool.",
   'Probably the weakest volume of this whole run but partially because it has a lot to do with Inhumans and my knowledge of them is limited, at best.',
   "It seems Marvel are aiming to make more and more of their stories, both on the page and on the silver screen, more cosmic, more spacey and  FF2: The Supremor Seed  is no different. It starts with a lot of mythology about Black Bolt, a kind of cheesily-dressed villain who is nonetheless credited as one of the most powerful characters in the Marvel Universe. He lives on the Moon, has 5 wives, and doesn't speak. He's raised an army of Inhumans and is invading Earth along with a bunch of alternate universe Reed Richards. The problem with large scaled stories that encompass grandiose things like entire universes colliding and so forth, is the loose grip a writer has on making the characters - made small by the events occurring around them - to seem relevant to the story. Here, they not only appear small and insignificant (what are Ben Grimm and Spidey going to do in the face of some kind of space God and an army that's destroyed hundreds of alien races and worlds?) but are also uninteresting and bland to read about. And these are some top tier Marvel characters too! Even throwing in members of the Avengers didn't do much to raise the interest level. When Jonathan Hickman can't get me interested in the existing cast, introducing even more characters into the mix isn't going to solve this lack of depth to the characters and their plight. If anything, it further underlines the superficial feel to the story. And for all its imagination of universes, worlds, alien races, etc., Hickman never feels in control of all the elements nor does he project any sense of urgency to the events. The overall feeling is of aloofness in the reading experience and a self-awareness of the transience of superhero comics at its most base level. I enjoyed the first volume and the second is pretty to look at but its inability to connect with the reader at all left me indifferent to the story and cold when I put the book down. I'd like to say it was a fun, fascinating romp but it was pretty much the opposite.",
   "The first volume in this series started out pretty good. We have the Fantastic Four, minus Human Torch, plus Spider-Man. We also have a bunch of Reed Richards-ses that come from other dimensions, all of whom decided at some point to abandon their families in order to do what's best for the world, which kind of means they lost any anchor to emotional reality and therefore became a group of dangerous sociopaths. I can dig it. Then we have the second volume. The phrase  a lot going on  can either be really great or really bad. Examples:  There is a lot going on in that novel.  Could be great because there's cool subtext, could be shit because dragons and man-eating plants just showed up for no real reason.  She's got a lot going on right now.  Could be someone with a career that's on fire or someone who is learning how to live life in a wheelchair.  There's a lot going on at the office.  Could be that business is brisk, could be that the pop machine is out of Brisk Iced Tea, could be that someone briskly shot everyone on a Tuesday. Kind of depends on who is telling the story. When I say  there's a lot going on  in the second volume, I mean it in the bad, dragons, man-eating plants, wheelchair, office shooting kind of way. A reasonable, paced story turns into about seventeen stories. No less than SIX other races show up within these pages. Characters I've never seen before duck in and out for no apparent reason. And in the end a war for humanity is fought...by the Inhumans. There's a group of kids who might be scientists, one of whom appears to be somehow related to the devil. Oh, and how could I forget this key plot point: THERE'S A MAGIC SEED! I have a couple of explanations that could describe how this volume feels. It kind of feels like your five year-old little brother read every Fantistic Four comic written from 1970 to 1979 and then breathlessly summarized them for you, using character names as though they are people you are familiar with and leaving you feeling like he must have left out HUGE plot points and may need to be evaluated to make sure his schooling is addressing all of his special needs. It kind of feels like someone came up with eight years worth of storylines, then was told he had 4 issues to write, and then instead of picking one decided to just jam them all in to see if he could, like jamming a bunch of dum-dums in a phone booth. It kind of feels like I read the first volume, then the eighth volume. Ten years later. With a somewhat alarming fever. Well, you get it. Which is to say, I don't get it. But please, if you explain your story to someone and it has a magic seed in it that grows a weird floating head with four eyes     ...eh, evaluate whether a genie would be appropriate to this world and use that as your guide.",
   "An Inhuman History (6-7).  Hickman's stories occasionally go really big picture, and that's the case here, as we get two entire issues focused on the Inhumans and pretty big movements by the Inhumans and Kree alike. Even without the actual FF, they're great, because they provide a history for the Universal Inhumans and tie everything in to the  War of Kings , where the Inhumans were last used [8/10]. The Big Battle (8-9).  And after a bit of downtime, we get some big-screen action as the Inhumans and the FF battle evil Reeds. It's exciting, it's fun, it's crazy, it's got nice details, and it's pretty amazing to see everything come to a head so fast. Not quite up to the greatness of the previous two issues, but this is still good stuff [8/10]. Reunion (10-11).  The getting-the-band-back-together issue is great. Having a door that sends you where you're needed is always a terrific way to move the plot along [8/10]. The final issue is the only weak one in the set, and that's because it's mainly setup for the big finale ... (Overall I liked this book considerably more the second time I read it. I suspect it's not a great standalone volume, but a terrific piece of the ongoing history.)",
   "2.75 stars. This was probably the weakest book I've read so far in Hickmans Fantastic Four run. The first 2 issues show the return of Black Bolt. After reading the great Marvel cosmic saga, I always wondered what happened to him. Unfortunately, the art in these 2 issues was very poor. So yeah, Black Bolt is back and the Inhumans return to the earth. Black Bolt had multiple wives now. There was a big battle at the forever city. Two of the Reeds from the multiverse were captured and one escaped with Dr Doom as his prisoner. Now Ronan and the Kree army have invaded earth. There's a lot going on and most of it was losing me. I was barely holding on through this book. ",
   "Feel like the first two issues of this volume were wasted on the Inhumans which could've probably been summed up in half an issue and a fancy Hickman type info graph. Guessing most people who were /are commited to this run, just want the focus to be on the kids and there wasn't too much of them here Hoping this is the low point in this run, even a Season 8 GOT type ending wouldn't ruin this great ride where Hickman made me care about the F4 and the kids!!!",
   "What's not to like? Jonathan Hickman's Fantastic Four was the first time that the writer's biggest plans was able to come to fruition and this volume is an important component of the story. It proves that the Fantastic Four is the franchise that gave birth to the Marvel universe and that Marvel's plans for its own slate of movies are severely hampered with the FF rights in the hands of Fox.",
   "Hickmans run had been swimming along nicely until this volume. We get a few issues purely on the Inhumans and they weren't very strong. It feels a little more like a setup for things to come. Heres hoping this was just a one off.",
   "Things are starting to get a bit more complicated here. Still dig the art, but the story isn't as clean and easy to follow as in the last volume. Hickman has this tendency to get far too convoluted in his storytelling and it looks like this book may be headed in that direction. I hope it doesn't.",
   "Some interesting twists in this volume, but it definitely requires knowledge of the history of the Fantastic Four, their allies and enemies, for a good deal of this to make sense. That said, these stories finally reveal much of the long-mysterious history of the Inhumans and their Kree creators, along with some rather good fight scenes and character interactions. It's especially cool that not just major characters like Reed, Sue, and Black Bolt get their moments to shine -- we also see characters like Crystal and Alex Power get some great scenes as well. (As a fan of  Power Pack  years ago, it's great to see Alex finally getting to prove that, yes, controlling gravity is a rather impressive and useful power.) And Reed finally calls in the cavalry -- his many heroic allies in the Marvel mythos -- a much better choice than his villain-recruiting plan in the first volume. Ends on a rather dramatic note that certainly makes one want to jump right into volume 3. Side note: I have to wonder if a lot of the character design of Rick from  Rick and Morty  comes from the portrayal of Reed (and his father Nathaniel) in these volumes -- especially the antagonists being from the amoral  Council of Reeds  and the implication that any significantly advanced genius is not only aware of, but interacts with, their analogs in other alternate realities.",
   'Boring prancing around galaxy with Inhumans. Almost every time I find Inhumans to be just like that. Boring and prancing. I know they are part of what Fantastic Four is, but they just should be left to be in that blue area of moon and forgotten there.',
   "The first FF volume was super well done, and while 2 is bigger and more explosive, it loses some of the charm the first volume had.  This one we see a lot of the Inhumans. You know, that crazy bunch who nobody seems to like but Marvel pushed for years to get into the spotlight. So yeah, they arrive to help (?) Reed stop the evil Reeds. At the same time we get a somewhat conclusion for Doom here and his mission. We see that Reed's pops isn't maybe telling the whole truth. We see our Reed finally come ask for help from the friends he knows and loves. And last but not least, we get Sue being a badass mother.  Good: I enjoyed the smaller, quiet moments. I especially liked Sue in this, and Reed finally admitting he needs help, and Spider-man even has a few great lines. I also thought Hickman obviously LOVES Blackbolt because he does this character justice. There's two amazing moments, one a fight, one a stance, and it's great. Last but not least Doom is pretty great in this series.  Bad: This epic feeling of a conclusion to the last arc felt missing here. Nothing surprising really happened, which is a surprise in itself. The plot grows deeper and tus this feels a lot like a bridge chapter.  Overall, still good. The art is great, the pacing is solid, there's some touching moments, but this didn't blow me away like the last two volumes. Still good though, a 3 out of 5.",
   "I really enjoyed this volume, but a lot of me wonders if anyone would enjoy it who hadn't been following all the Cosmic Marvel stuff for the past few years. The War of Kings and parts of the Thanos Imperative play a major part in the arcs here, and the information from those arcs is just kind of mentioned without any real setup for readers who might be unfamiliar with it. Even though I've read all of that stuff, it took me a second to remember what had happened in those storylines. That said, once I caught myself up on everything mentally, I really got into this volume. It's a lot of action, whereas the previous volumes have focused a lot on plot, but that doesn't fall to the wayside by any means here. There's still enough development to go around, and the book ends on a cliffhanger I'm really looking forward to following up on. So, if you're already reading Hickman's FF/Fantastic Four stuff, this is going to keep your interests piqued. If you're not reading it, this isn't the place to start, but hey, that's what  Volume Ones  are for.",
   "Jonthan Hickman's Avengers work has been a topic of conversation around here lately, and I had read some of his Fantastic Four work, and liked it. With that said I decided to move the TPBS up the TBR pile. How do I feel about FF at the series' halfway point? The positives are that Hickman has to provide a payoff to his story soon, and his is arguably one of the better portrayals of Susan Storm Richards. At times I feel like Susan is rolling here eyes at her husband thinking that he is utterly clueless about people. There are some characterizations that don't seem to quite work. The Ronan/Crystal relationship as an an example. It was a forced marriage of state, and I don't read every Marvel TPB or single issue, but her decision to back Ronan as the Kree's new leader and in his war against her family just doesn't work. It seems much too quick a turn for her.",
   "I really have to say I didn't enjoy the Inhuman's section in this trade. I guess I'm the most biased person when it comes to the Inhuman's but they really do suck and Marvel even know it because as soon as they have the movie rights for X-Men back guess who gets exterminated straight away? Anyways, this is before Marvel had the X-Movie rights back so we're firmly in the era of having the Inhuman's crammed down our throats for no good reason, and I must say that I hate it and I hated 2 issues being wasted on seeing things from their point of view, even though it was a boring and unnecessary one. Keep the INHUMANS as unambiguous as possible and I'm happy. Other than that, there's still some interesting fantastic four stuff going on here but the smell of the inhumans bothers me. ",
   "Yeah sure call this  FF  as much as you want, it's an Inhumans title now. They prepare a siege for Earth and it becomes a three-way war between the Inhumans, the Council of Reeds, and the Future Foundation. I'm glad the Inhumans got some resolution to their plot from War of Kings, and there's some great stuff this volume with Reed recognizing his failures and everyone in the FF reconciling with each other... but I'm ready for the plot to move past this Inhumans side story.",
   "The most surprising thing about this volume? It solidifies how natural Spidey fits in the FF's corner of the Marvel-U. ",
   "It was odd to see the series focus so much on the Inhumans, who I find more interesting by far than the Fantastic Four, but who are not actually part of any groups whose initials are FF. I haven't figured out what this series is supposed to be about. I presumed going in that it was about the Future Foundation, but in this collection it's mostly about a lot of people who are not in the FF. It was chaotic at times trying to keep track of all the characters in panels full of Alpha Primitives, Reed's supervillain posse, Inhumans, royal Inhumans and the Reeds from other dimensions. And I'd thought it would be difficult to remember who's who of the FF kids. I like the strange otherness of the Inhumans that comes through in this time period, but there are so many moving parts in this series it isn't a surprise that it didn't stick around.",
   "This is a very mature and interesting take on the Fantastic Four. The characters do resonate in unexpected ways and they're still true to who they are. The one thing I can't figure out is how people managed to follow such a story in a monthly basis. The subtleties of the arc would get entirely lost with such long hiatuses. Anyway, my one only complaint is that Hickman's stories get a bit dense sometimes and not everything makes sense or gets rightfully explained. Five wives for Black Bolt? Seriously? Still, it was a great read. Though, the story doesn't end yet in this volume! Having Barry Kitson do some of the issues is just magic. I wish he could have been through the entire run.",
   '[ I agree with Spiderman, why does Blackbolt need FIVE wives seems like overkill and I thought that was weird.  (hide spoiler) ]',
   "The Inhumans kind of take over this volume. The first 2 issues are a closure to  War of Kings , this big cosmic battle that has been going on between the Shi'ar and the Kree who are now ruled by the Inhumans. Anyway, the Inhumans come back to Earth and insert themselves into the middle of the battle for the Forever City so we get this 3-way contest with the Inhumans, the Council of Reeds and the Future Foundation. This is the low part of Hickman's run. A lot of the outcome of this ends up being setup for the final leg of Hickman's run.",
   "This was still pretty good, but the inclusion of the Inhumans and the Kree kinda took away from the Future Foundation, and I don't know if this is the direction this series should take. Also, this is apparently spoilers for some storyline that happened, but it is explained here, but I still don't fully grasp it. Also, the artwork in those Inhumans explainer issues were not great.",
   "A great run continues & explores the secret history of the Kree Supreme Intelligence's project for seeding the Universal Inhumans, the fate of the Kree empire after the Kree-Shi'ar war, the FF running into complications w/ its large membership of villainous mad scientists, the return of the Inhuman Royal Family to Earth, & Reed & Ben seeking out new allies",
   "Fine! Hickman sets up this story of the Thing leaving the team (for good reason imo), but there's not really any payoff in getting him to come back. He just kind of does. I also liked the twist on how they brought back the supreme intelligence. Honestly though with the exception of Reed, most of the main cast don't really have much to do. Really good art by Kitson, though."],
  '_version_': 1748767597859438592},
 {'id': '31640',
  'author': ['Jason Aaron', 'R.M. Guéra', 'Brian K. Vaughan'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "Jason Aaron, the up-and-coming writer of the critically acclaimed series THE OTHER SIDE teams with gritty artist R.M. Guera for an intense crime drama that mixes organized crime with current Native American culture. ,Fifteen years ago, Dashiell  Dash  Bad Horse ran away from a life of abject poverty and utter hopelessness on the Prairie Rose Indian Reservation in hopes of finding something better. Now he's come back home armed with nothing but a set of nunchucks, a hell-bent-for-leather attitude and one dark secret, to find nothing much has changed on  The Rez  -- short of a glimmering new casino, and a once-proud people overcome by drugs and organized crime. Is he here to set things right or just get a piece of the action?,Cover by Jock,Collects Scalped #1-5",
  'genre': ['Sequential Art',
   'Comics',
   'Graphic Novels',
   'Mystery',
   'Crime',
   'Graphic Novels Comics',
   'Fiction',
   'Noir',
   'Comix',
   'Westerns'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1408986639l/1297291.jpg',
  'isbn': '1401213170',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1297291.Scalped_Vol_1',
  'page_count': '124',
  'rating': 4.01,
  'review_count': 418,
  'title': 'Scalped, Vol. 1: Indian Country',
  'rating_count': 7344,
  'price': 22.56,
  'sensitivity': ['demons',
   'cursing',
   'war',
   'murder',
   'violence',
   'drugs',
   'racism',
   'snakes',
   'death',
   'abuse',
   'misogyny',
   'alcohol',
   'blood',
   'alcoholism',
   'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'dying',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'damaging',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'incredible',
   'simplistic',
   'cliche',
   'enigmatic',
   'complicated',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'twist',
   'edgy',
   'emotional',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'timeless',
   'spoilers',
   'dramatic',
   'captured',
   'original',
   'phenomenal',
   'entertaining',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'office',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'period',
   'famous',
   'horrific',
   'fantastic',
   'powerful',
   'lacks',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'worse',
   'average',
   'best',
   'acclaimed',
   'special',
   'shock',
   'discomfort',
   'rooting',
   'surprised',
   'redemption',
   'cynical',
   'visionary',
   'familiar',
   'tired',
   'drag',
   'bothered',
   'ambitious',
   'attention',
   'dull',
   'top',
   'rich',
   'revenge',
   'brutal',
   'classic',
   'flawless',
   'enjoyed',
   'realistic',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'deliver',
   'heart',
   'hype',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'masterpiece',
   'unforgettable',
   'sexy',
   'detailed',
   'innovative',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'struggle',
   'lacking',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'spoiled',
   'rare',
   'relate',
   'poor',
   'funny',
   'wonderful',
   'interesting',
   'pleasant',
   'different',
   'lovely',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'love',
   'wonderfully',
   'unusual',
   'cliffhanger',
   'contemporary',
   'unexpected',
   'forward',
   'unpleasant'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': ["When I first read Preacher, several years ago, I found it over-the-top crazy violent with (too many) layers of intrigue and I stopped reading it after the first volume. It took me some time before I could come back to it and see it all the way through as one of the great comics series ever. I had pretty much the same experience with Scalped. Too violent, too crazy, over the top. Now, years later, impatient for the next volume of Aaron's Southern Bastards, I reread this first volume and yeah, it is violent, but it is also pretty powerful. I had missed the quality of the writing and the deep political commentary. It reminds me a bit of 100 Bullets with its story of betrayal and murder, but adding in dimensions of race and class. Maybe a touch of Alan Moore's Swamp Thing, exposing the underbelly of the American southwest. And Preacher, of course.  After fifteen years, Dashiell (as in with a wink to Dashiell Hammett, to get at the dark noir aspect of this series)  Dash  Bad Horse returns to Prairie Rose Indian Reservation in South Dakota, the poorest county in America, with 80% unemployment, $3k average household income, and raging alcoholism. And in the midst of this poverty, Chief Lincoln Red Crow of the Oglala Lakota tribe is opening a $97 million casino, relaxing those alcohol restrictions in the process. Will this help the local economy? The feel of this series owes something to sixties Blaxploitation flix as the angry Dash gets hired by the Chief to clean up the rez. But what if the chief is the central source of corruption? And what if Dash is an undercover FBI agent with the job of bringing down Red Crow? After all these years Dash meets up with his mother, who put him on a bus 15 years ago to get him away from rez life. That meeting doesn't go well. Bad Horse also reconnects with the drug-addicted, lost Carol Red Crow, too. Will he save her or will she drag him down with her? We also have in the background a sort of mythical Native American figure Catcher, riding his horse Festus (Festus was a character on the tv series Gunsmoke). And Officer Falls Down (“No, not all of us get noble animal names.”). The storytelling reveals Aaron's deep research into the long tragic history of the American reservation, with some authentic nasty dialogue and even some dark humor exposing the poverty and corruption and inequity in the poorest county in the richest country on the planet. Yes, it is gritty, dark, and violent. Not for everyone, but finally, it does seem to be for me.",
   "Thirty years ago Alan Moore changed the face of comics, Watchmen, V for Vendetta, The Killing Joke--we've all heard the story before, and I've certainly put my  2 cents  in. Now, he's not the only revolutionary comic writer out there: Gerber was writing  realistic superhero stories  years before Moore, and Milligan has a  complex, literary voice  to rival Moore's.  But Moore is still the great inspiration, the ever-changing, wide-reaching face of comics as an art form. And so he has become a touchpoint, a polarizer, and a target--though hardly one of his own making. As Emerson once wrote,  'To be great is to be misunderstood' , and I am hard-pressed to say whether dear old Alan is more great, or more misunderstood. So, because he is the acknowledged high priest of 'graphic novels', and because a lot of people who wouldn't touch a comic book take great pride in reading 'graphic novels', and because one of Moore's creations is invariably relicensed and remade every year, people seek Moore out. Journalists go to the old wise man on the rock, begging for visions of the future. And Moore is every bit the wily hermit, which is why these interviews always turn out the same way: Journalist who hasn't done his homework:   Mr. Moore, where do you see comics going in the future? What are your favorite comic books?  Merlin in a black cutoff shirt:   The industry betrayed me over and over, especially the big companies. I don't really read comics any more, and I certainly don't follow them enough to have an opinion.  J:   Oh, I see. Well, what about the news that they are going to remake [something Moore did in 1987]?  AM:   Well, they own it, so they can do what they want with it. I don't care, but I don't want to see it.  J:   Well, how about the fact that [other company] is going to make a sequel to [some minor Moore story] using old scripts you pitched to them in 1991 but they rejected?  AM:   Well, I'm sorry to hear that, I wish that they would stop cannibalizing old stories and ideas, trying to recapture their glory days, and instead to to move ahead with something new.  J:   Like what?  AM:   I don't know, how about something that isn't just a rewrite of work from decades ago? How about they promote a culture of new-thinking, creative talent instead of just hiring guys who grew up as comic fans and just want to tell the same stories about the same characters, stories which are so full of inside-jokes and impossibly complex histories that no new reader could possibly find them interesting? It sounds like nothing has changed since I left, and the industry is still run by people who discourage anything new and push for anything that resembles a successful work that is now old an outdated.  Then the journalist publishes the piece as 'Alan Moore Bashes Comics Industry (Again)  and the internet erupts in another unpleasant shitstorm. People who are tired of Moore's huge reputation say he's an old man who is out of touch, and people who buy into his reputation a bit too much say he's completely right, and that all modern comics are shit. And so we see how reputations are built: both sides misread Moore's statement and then everyone talks about how he is a saint and/or a bastard, while Moore sits at home writing stuff and not caring.  Inevitably, people in the industry start putting in their opinion. We usually get something from Grant Morrison about how there are all kinds of great comics out there besides Moore's, which is true, but since Morrison has spent his career being labeled 'that guy who is like Alan Moore, but not as good' (sometimes  fairly , sometimes  not ), he tends to be too close to the controversy to see things clearly. And he's hardly the only one. After reading Jason Aaron's  'The Year I Stopped Caring About Alan Moore' , I found myself thinking that someone else in the industry had grossly misread him, taken the whole thing personally, and ultimately, failed to refute any of the points Moore had made about the industry. In fact, his naive lashing-out rather seems to confirm Moore's concerns. Moore contends that the industry does not promote talent. He doesn't just say that they have no top talent, but that there is no system of writing promotion, whatsoever:   Why are DC Comics trying to exploit a comic book that I wrote 25 years ago if they have got anything?  . But Aaron contends that he has written a story where he, as a character in his own story, is shot in the face by a  funny in-joke character  who only die-hard geeks remember. As any writer from Family Guy will tell you, there is no more creative act than combining violence, obscure references, and breaking the fourth wall--a technique that was already tired when Morrison did it in 1990. Already, Aaron is feeding into Moore's critique of the industry as worn-out, incestuous, and cannibalistic. Then there's Moore's assertion that the industry is now run by fans. He's not saying it shouldn't be run by people who love comics--clearly, Alan himself loves comics, despite all the bitterness and difficulty-- this is more akin to a winery being in the hands of alcoholics: of people who do not want to make the best product, but who want to make something that will get them good and drunk. This is supported by Aaron's own whining assertions that Alan Moore 'owes him' for buying all his comics over the years. Now here, I had always thought that the writer repays you in the story, and if you like what he has written, you buy it, and you both get what you want. But in the mind of a 'fan', that's not how it works. The relationship between writer and consumer is personal, it's an interaction, or as Aaron puts it:  But just how has Alan Moore seen fit to thank me for all the support and adoration I've shown him over the years?  Well, I'd say he thanked you by writing great stories in the medium you love. Not enough? Tough shit. Alan is not obliged to coddle you and be your friend, nor is it necessary for him to read every single author's work in order to see that the industry is stagnant and backed up, and that, despite the great, undiscovered authors who may be out there, the industry is not embracing a new vision. And I've been looking for one. There are a lot of comics coming out these days and I wish that there were voices as revolutionary as Moore, Gaiman, and Milligan leading the way to some new period, instead of just aping the past. Instead of  Sandman , we have  Fables , a pale shadow of Gaiman's mythic explorations, lacking writing ability, insight, and character. For artistic exploration we have  The Nightly News , which is pretty enough, but which has the sort of plot a first-year college student might write while using the term 'sheeple' without a trace of irony. The Walking Dead is an endless, straightforward soap opera with some passable characterization, but no aspirations to anything greater.  Y: The Last Man  does have aspirations, but gets lost in chauvinism, cliche, and overly-convenient plotting. I could go on. My first thought, after reading Aaron's invectives against Moore was 'who is this guy, and does he have any ground to stand on?' So I looked him up and found he was the author of a few comics, but then I forgot about him and moved on. It wasn't until much later that I happened to read a highly-recommended book called 'Scalped' and then, while writing this review, realized it was by the same guy. Well, if Aaron wants praise from Moore for keeping comics alive into a new era, he's going to need more than this. It's a rehash of Frank Miller's Sin City, without the hard-driving, elegant plot. Aaron tries to do a bit of what Moore is famous for: a disjointed story that skips back and forth, but like Morrison, he shows how damned hard it is to do without losing the thrust of the plot. He does have some nice moments and attractive pieces of composition, but they are the exception. Then again, the plot isn't very well-constructed to begin with. He takes a noir bent and  lampshades it , calling his protagonist  'Dashiell' , then writes out a story where everything is confused and uncertain, doled out slowly over time for our hard-nosed hero. But we never get any starting impetus to get us into the story, its all just undefined mystery with the characters jumping back and forth between time and place, trying to get us to our destination. Aaron didn't seem to learn from either Miller or Hammett that you need to stick with something small and palpable to hook the main character, a central personal journey for him to follow as we uncover the larger tale, otherwise it just feels like a normal story with the structure chopped up and reversed to fool us into thinking it might be interesting. The dialogue is reminiscent of  Preacher : every third word isn't a swear word and everyone is constantly threatening and insulting one another. Yet there isn't as much differentiation between the characters, especially in terms of dialogue, so everyone just ends up sounding the same. Everything is loud and crude for its own sake, and the tone suffers. Using characteristic, strong dialogue can be a great way to give your story mood and your characters personality, but filling every bubble with as much wild vernacular as possible is just distracting and silly, and it makes everyone sound the same. At some point, you're going to have to tell a story. But this is Sin City on the Rez, and therein lies some opportunity for a new vision--something not already done to death in comics--and which has the added benefit of being able to comment on the long tradition of Western comics. But this is not an eye-opening bit of realism, not a glimpse into the Rez culture. So far, I haven't seen any details I haven't already encountered in the cliche depictions of Natives that sometimes show up on TV. This isn't Sherman Alexie or Louise Erdrich, it's not even Momaday, it's just a crime drama with a 'Native' veneer. It's frustrating because you do finally have these Native voices coming out in those authors or in movies like Dead Man and Pow Wow Highway, and then to read something like this, which is so reductive. It lacks the self-aware humor which makes stories about isolation and poverty feel human. But then, mirthlessness is a sure sign of an 'edgy' comic that takes itself too seriously. Sure, there's plenty of witless sarcasm, but that hardly adds depth to an already cynical story. So whatever Aaron wants from Alan Moore, or feels he deserves, I've seen nothing so far to suggest that he's earned any of it. He's not in the new vanguard of up-and-coming writers who are going to redefine comics for the next generation, he's just another guy remaking the great comics of the previous generation. Maybe his childish diatribe would have had some more punch if he had some accomplishments to back it up, but as of yet, I'm not seeing it.   My Suggested Readings in Comics  ",
   "Dashiell Bad Horse returns to the reservation where he grew up with a pair of nunchucks and proceeds to start whipping ass. This gets the attention of local honcho Red Crow who is getting ready to open a casino, and he gets Bad Horse a job as a deputy where he can legally crack the skulls of everyone interfering with Red Crow's plans. Bad Horse also has to face his estranged activist mother who is protesting the casino,and there's also his old flame who doesn't let a husband stop her from banging every guy she can and who just so happens to be Red Crow's daughter. Dash is also harboring a pretty big secret that seriously complicates his life as a hired thug. This is great crime story with enough violence, blood and sex to be an HBO series. The unique setting of the rez with its population of disenfranchised Native-Americans gives it an interesting backdrop and provides plenty of complex conflicts for Bad Horse to deal with.  My only complaint is that more people weren't actually scalped. That's false advertising!",
   "Hoka Hey! You don't know this yet but “Scalped” is one of the best comics you'll ever read.   I know because I've read the whole series now and there isn't a weak link in the chain; every single book is solid. There isn't a lull in the middle, there aren't weird tangents that are pointless to the overall story - there is simply one incredible book after another with writer Jason Aaron creating, alongside visionary artist and co-creator R.M. Guera, one of the most impressive literary achievements ever written.   The series is set on the Prairie Rose Indian Reservation in South Dakota, the poorest county in America, where unemployment is at 80%, the average yearly household income is three thousand dollars, and alcoholism is rife. It is a third world country within the richest country in the world. Amidst such poverty, Lincoln Red Crow, the chief of the Oglala Lakota tribe, is set to open the $97 million Crazy Horse Casino, supposedly to rejuvenate the county's stagnant economy.   Red Crow is one of the two main characters in this series, a complex man with a dark past filled with murder and betrayal. The other main character is Dashiell Bad Horse, an angry young man who left the Rez (as the Reservation is known) at 13 and returns to become one of Red Crow's enforcers. He is really an undercover FBI Agent tasked with collecting evidence to bring down Red Crow and his criminal syndicate once and for all. Both characters are richly drawn and over the course of the series become two of the most unforgettable characters you're ever likely to encounter in all of literature. They feel both timeless yet also of their time.   This flawless first book introduces Bad Horse and Red Crow while setting up their desolate, dangerous and desperate world. Key to this introduction is R. M. Guera's astonishingly emotive pencils and dusty appearance, perfectly suiting the desert background. Guera gives each of the characters an immediately recognisable and unique face and figure, bringing Aaron's white hot dialogue to life. In the characters' expressions are perfectly drawn emotion and depth while bringing real motion to the action sequences. The squalor and disenchantment of the Rez is perfectly captured with Guera's masterful art and strong eye for detail.   The tragic character of Carol Red Crow, the mysterious figure of Catcher perched atop his horse Festus, the vengeful Agent Nitz, the honourable Officer Falls Down, and the earnest Dino Poor Bear are all introduced in passing - each one of this supporting cast will develop beautifully over the series, adding so much to the overall tapestry of “Scalped”.   There isn't a first volume in any series that gets so much right, so fast. I expected there to be a grace period where the groundwork is laid before the action starts up but Aaron pulls off the most incredible balancing act of introducing everything and everyone and setting the tone while crafting a mesmerising and pulse-pounding story at the same time. It's a crime story. It's a love story. It's a story about fathers and daughters, mothers and sons. It's about cultural heritage. It's about institutional corruption. It's about the American Dream. It's about American history. By turns it is seriously exciting, darkly funny, sexy, insightful, and always entertaining. And as much as this first book contains? There is so much more yet to come.   For now though, pick up “Indian Country” and read the beginning of a masterpiece.    Toksa Ake!",
   "Out of nowhere in the world of comics, the superbly innovative Vertigo strand of D.C. comics came through with this superb Native American military veteran homecoming / reservation crime drama centred round the return of Dashiell 'Dash' Big House to 'The Rez' where he grew up. Superbly crafted and very much a human interest tale with it's no holds barred look at the downside of the modern Native American set-aside communities. 8 out of 12.",
   "There have been 4 major turning points in my life when it comes to media: when I first heard Slayer, when I first read Breakfast of Champions, when I first saw Pulp Fiction, and when I first read Preacher. Those were major points that redirected and reshaped not only my tastes, but by extension, me as a person. From there I found so much more to love, more that I could love, in all the media markets. They prompted me to dig deeper and search harder and to not settle for mediocrity in my tastes, but to find those things that are truly excellent. Oh, I almost forgot when I was introduced to the art of Egon Schiele. And then, 13 years after all of that, I think that there won't be any more days like that. Days of wonder where I find something that completely reinvents my expectations of everything that comes after that. This book is too good for just a 5 star rating. It's off the charts phenomenal. And I am overselling it on a critical level. I am. But I can't give it enough praise as it applies to my own personal taste. Here's a good indicator of whether or not you, personally, will enjoy this book- it has elements of racism, violence, alcoholism, drug abuse, drug manufacturing, fist fights, murders and an overall air of desperation.  On a critical level, the book has an intellectual appeal that lies beneath it's gruff exterior. It speaks volumes about America from a perspective that you absolutely never see in other media or storytelling. Not even in a Sherman Alexie story. How desecrated and battered American Indian culture is and how exploitative it has become of it's own self. The drugs and alcoholism, the way the reservations have become secluded and desolate ghettos, the power structure that is exploiting it's own people and that the wealth generated is not distributed among the population of the reservation where 80% of the people live below the poverty line. If you can stomach real dialogue, with all of it's misogyny and racism, then get your hands on this book. It's art is just as visceral as it's scripting. ",
   "True story: I volunteered to work on a Native American reservation in the American southwest a few years ago. Needless to say, from the low quality cots to the do-gooder personnel running the joint it was a miserable experience. However, I was quite surprised to find the same location providing the setting for a comic book. My volunteering experience was not the least bit pleasant yet I had quite the opposite feeling from this one.  First up to bat has to be the art. The word grit keeps coming up in innumerable comic book related reviews which could be well applied here. However, the word grimy would be far more apt for Scalped. Claustrophobia and the ensuing density that would rival Jupiter's Red Spot jar our eyes first, and then our minds. Brutal anti-chiaroscuro ethos enshrine themselves in a style that favors the dark rather than the light. Second, the story takes from 100 Bullet's sensibilities and denudes them of their typified accessibility but still retaining their essences. There's alot of overlap with 70's inspirited Blaxploitation films that drives detail as much as dialogue. The past has been successfully reduplicated with a new  rez  veneer. Thirdly, creative paneling takes a strong point here. Instead of a simplistic arrangement of panels, Scalped decries well established know-how and follows its own ethos. Panels overlap background illustrations as much as other demarcated quadrilaterals to dramatic effect. The same force that shoves rotating razor blades in out face like the infamous Texas Chainsaw Massacre are in effect here. In conclusion, I'll be real. I still have no idea what to think here. Unlike any other comic I've read, even after reading some 100 pages (in many ways) I still have no idea where I am nor what has happened over all. So many threads have been unspooled here it's gonna take a while to make sense of it all. However, poignant artwork has pierced first, and then engaged mine eyes so strongly, it's been impossible to turn away. I'm excited to see how the story develops from here...",
   "I've been reading a lot of Aaron's work and so I was recommended Scalped a few times. I've avoided this title for a while because it just didn't sound all that fun to read, but I was wrong. I'm used to reading image comics, so when I picked up this vertigo title I was a bit disappointed with the print. No glossy pages and a dull printed colours for the artwork. That aside, what a brilliant story. It's a more mature story than I imagined and I've likened it to be very similar to the TV show or vice versa 'Banshee'. There are a lot of similarities.  Anyway it's got a solid story and a kick ass main character and what looks like some twists about to rear their head in future issues and lots of unexpected turns, especially at the end of this volume. I think I'm going to read on and invest in the deluxe.",
   "A full-speed, gritty, noir-inspired book, in the somewhat unusual setting of a modern Oglala Lakota reservation. The story takes off from the first scene, and rarely lets up. It's rough, violent, and steeped in corruption on many levels. And I don't think it's for me. I have no doubt of Aaron's skills, and I've greatly enjoyed some of the things he's written. But though I think that he's done exactly what he set out to do with this book, I'm still not onboard. I can't pretend that some of that isn't my discomfort with a white author writing an entire reservation as, essentially, the slums of Gotham on a bad day. I don't doubt that Aaron has done his research, but it's a very one dimensional view.",
   "Indian Country is the perfect way to start a gritty saga. There's the characters, the place called the Rez and the Indian country which seems to be hiding a horrible, horrible past. Scalped starts with a young war veteran Dashiell  Dash  Bad Horse returning to Praire Rose Indian Reservation. Nothing good has happened in the Rez. In fact, things got a lot worse there. And for Dash, it brings back to him so many nightmares of the past. The scenes are very cinematic and action-packed that it may as well look good on the TV screen! Scalped is a battle between the whites and the reds, a crime story of all sorts - drugs, gambling, prostitution and murders. And to think that this is only the first of ten volumes, I'm definitely in one helluva ride.",
   'A sleezy modern day crime drama with all the grittyness I loved in  Southern Bastards, Vol. 1: Here Was a Man .',
   "Updated November 2018 on completion of the series.  Sixty issues. Ten trade paperbacks. More than 1,200 pages. God knows how many shootings, stabbings, betrayals, and bad choices.  This fantastic series is set on the Prairie Rose Indian Reservation, and while there is a large group of characters, the story centers mainly around Chief Lincoln Red Crow and Dashiell  Dash  Bad Horse. While these two have history, Dash left the Rez fifteen years ago planning to never return to this land of poverty and hopelessness. Now he's back, and while nothing has really changed, there is a new casino run by Red Crow, who also heads up the local organized crime unit. The history of Native Americans is a bleak one, and there is much that is bleak here, but there is also the exploration of the proud Lakota and their traditions. This is a bloody and violent tale, and that's as it should be, and in the midst of all of the blood and gun fights, there is the figuring out who you are, what you stand for, and whether it's possible to have a different destiny than the one predicted/expected. Race, poverty, crime, drugs, violence, love, pride, community, and redemption are some of the themes explored within these pages. The characters are all fully fleshed out, and I cared for even the ones I didn't like as they were all complicated and flawed in their own way. Who are the good guys and who are the bad? That changes time and again, and while the ending is not a happily ever after, it is the only one possible.  I had a love/dislike relationship with the art style here. Very dark and moody, sometimes it was perfect and other times too much. There were some wordless pages that were so beautifully illustrated that they stopped me in my tracks. Maybe overall it was just right. As with all collections there were some installments that I loved and others that I really liked. I've never read anything like this before, and am left a little stunned as to what to read next. While this is a series I would only recommend to those not faint of heart, Scalped has pushed its way to my top ten list of graphic novels of all time. It did so with much violence and bloodshed, but the spot is well earned.",
   "I couldn't move while reading this. It was that gripping!! Violent, dark, gritty with twists and turns and a story to be slowly revealed. A must read for all Jason Aaron fans. Absolutely brilliant and terrifyingly unique!",
   "(This is my review of the entire series, not just this book.) Holy crap, what a ride. After five years and 60 issues, Jason Aaron and R. M. Guera's noir masterpiece, Scalped, came to an end a couple of weeks ago with the release of Scalped: Trail's End, the tenth and final collection.  And just. . .wow. There is s spoiler below, just so you know, but it's given away at the end of the first issue. If you absolutely can't stand spoilers, stop reading this and go read Scalped. It's that good, just go read it instead of my craptastic review. Everybody else, you're going to be a little spoiled. Scalped is the story of a Lakota reservation in South Dakota, seen through the eyes of its inhabitants, most notably: Lincoln Red Crow, the bloody-handed chief and community who wants nothing more than prosperity for his people at absolutely any price and may have killed some FBI agents in the 70s; Catcher, the enigmatic loner who still follows the old ways and has visions of their gods; reservation officer Falls Down, who may be the most (and nearly only) genuinely good person in the whole story, and Dino Poor Bear, a single father with a family that is physically and/or mentally ill and who wants nothing more than to leave the reservation once and for all. Our protagonist, our guide to the reservation, the eyes that show us this poverty-ridden, drug- and alcohol-ravished community, is Dashiell Bad Horse. Dashiell left the reservation - more to the point, was sent away from the reservation - 15 years ago by his mother. Dashiell returns seemingly for no apparent reason 15 years later, angry, full of piss and vinegar, and eagerly kicking the crap out of Lincoln Red Crow's soldiers. This of course gets him pulled into Red Crow's office, who decides Dashiell Bad Horse would make a better soldier than an enemy, and because Dashiell's mother, Gina Bad Horse, leads the protests against Red Crow's soon-to-open casino. So remember when I said that Red Crow might have killed some FBI agents in the 70s? FBI Special Agent Bayliss Nitz certainly remembers, and will do anything he can to inflict pain and suffering on three of the people that were involved: Gina Bad Horse, Catcher, and Lincoln Red Crow. Agent Nitz figures the best way to nail Red Crow is to send a mole onto the reservation and into Red Crow's organization to find evidence of wrongdoing and nail Red Crow on murder charges. His choice? FBI Agent Dashiell Bad Horse. And that's where Scalped begins: Dashiell returns to the rez, and is revealed (to the reader) as Nitz's mole at the end of the first issue. That's the spoiler. Believe it or not, being caught in the war between Red Crow and Nitz is pretty much the high point of Dashiell's life for most of the series. This is a story that takes its noir very seriously: each story arc, rather than presenting some happiness here, some sadness there, a problem, and a resolution basically boils down to the philosophy  things always get worse.  And things always get worse. Unrelentingly, unrepentantly, unmitigatedly worse. Poor decisions are made, worse consequences follow, violence and drug addictions spiral out of control, body parts get lost, Red Crow's hands only get bloodier the harder he tries to clean them, Dino Poor Bear falls in with a bad crowd, Falls Down falls down, Catcher starts losing his mind, and Dashiell. . .the shitstorm around Dashiell is just terrible. And it's still one of my favourite comic book series of all time. Scalped wears its influences proudly. You can see bits of old Westerns in the behaviours of some of the characters (especially Sheriff Karnow of the neighboring county in Nebraska, where rez people go to buy alcohol). The dialogue, character complexity, and noir nature are deeply reminiscent of my favourite TV show ever, Deadwood, which Jason Aaron specifically cites an an influence and also took place in the Black Hills of South Dakota. There is also a bit of Garth Ennis's Preacher in the writing, which Aaron also cites an influence. Speaking of that character complexity: Aaron nails it very well here. No one is pure. People do bad things for good reasons and good things for bad reasons all the time in Scalped. There are no real heroes or real villains; even Red Crow comes off a lot like Al Swearengen of Deadwood, doing bad things for the good of his people. That's what makes it noir, and that's what makes it good. Guera's art is a bit too dark at times; some scenes are difficult to make out, but that's a small complaint to make in comparison to the rest of the fantastic work done on this series. Best of all, the ending is neither overly sappy nor overly dark - it simply fits. Consequences come back to haunt everybody in the end, and that's really as it should be. No one gets out with clean hands, and some do not make it out alive. It's a dark story, and glorious in its darkness. It's a simple story made wonderfully complex by its characters - just like life. So why are you still here? Go read Scalped. Oh, by the way: Scalped is violent. Nearly everybody gets shot at least once, there are vicious beatings, stabbings, and horrific crimes committed by terrible people (also by well-meaning people). If you can't handle violence, this is most definitely not the story for you. Hoka hey.",
   "This series starts off with a real bang. Issue #1 immediately sets the tone and milieu for a whole lotta shit in a tiny, pressure cooker community of low lifes, shit kickers and double-dealing snakes. There isn't one redeeming character in the whole bunch of them, and it's fantastic. Dash, Shunka, Chief Red Crow, Gina, Diesel, Nitz and the shaman/drunk all get introduced in the FIRST ISSUE, giving us a smorgasbord of meaty, compromised and shifty characters to chew on. And gives us all the madness and action of a rough, sharp-as-razor setting to make us jealous we didn't have whatever life experience led Aaron and Guera to be able to inhabit this hellhole so vividly. Pretty much every character by this point already feels fully formed and very real. This book runs pretty much headlong to the final pages, towards the tragic cliffhanger that *really* sets this story in motion. The storytelling that leads up to this ending is pretty impressive - layers of parallels that any typical script just wouldn't (or couldn't) pull together with elegance and subtlety. The art at this point is already pretty damn good - some of the lighting and shadows are just perfect for the mood, and the action is almost always easy to follow.",
   "It's got punch. That's for sure. Characters who stand out, no holding back, the kind of book that goes for it all, doesn't wait too long to try and get people talking, it starts right from the get-go. Dashiell Bad Horse is a bad mother-shut your mouth! I like the grit of the art, I like the story, I like everything. More please!",
   "Pretty awesome. It was a bit hard to follow at first, but I got into it by the end of the volume. The feel and the style are very similar to Aaron's current ongoing book, Southern Bastards. And if you have read it, you know it's a good thing. Artwork is great, too, fits the story well.",
   "When  Scalped  first came out, I wasn't interested. Maybe it was the description of the series in the sales pitch. I don't know. But somewhere along the line, I had the opportunity to pick up  Indian Country , the first volume, for a steal so I shrugged and thought,  okay, let's give it a try.  One of the best decisions ever!  Scalped  turned out to be just about the most rough, raw and edgy crime story I've read in a long time... maybe ever. On the surface, the plot is fairly straight forward. Dash Badhorse returns to the Indian reservation home he left years before, only this time, unknown to anyone, he's an undercover FBI agent assigned to take down the criminal organization run by Lincoln Red Crow, the head of the reservation council. What sets this apart from most graphic novels (and most novels for that matter) is Jason Aaron's storytelling abilities, weaving threads from past events(the wild west days and the 1970s American Indian Movement) into the squalid, sordid despair (and casino glitz) of a contemporary American Indian reservation. The sub-plot involving Dash's parents (and just about everybody else) in bloody events during the A.I.M. years is complex and compelling, keeping you guessing at every turn what all of it has to do with the present story. And the present story is one of duplicity, brutality, deceit and murder beyond anything most readers would ever expect to see on a comics page. There's shock and horror, and there's devastating heart-break. As a prose story,  Scalped  would be an amazing accomplishment. The fact that Aaron pulls this off in a graphic novel (comic book, if you will) is almost beyond belief. There are 10 volumes collecting all the monthly issues of  Scalped . It's one big story, so I rate each volume the same: 5 stars. Well done! And it's high time HBO or Showtime get on the ball and turn  Scalped  into a TV series ('cause it's just to raw for AMC or FX).",
   "  This is a spoiler-free review of the entire series   After staying away from home for years, Dashiell 'Dash' Bad Horse returns to the Prairie Rose Reservation and starts working for Lincoln Red Crow, the tribal chairman who is also a dreaded crime boss. But Dash has a secret, and when a loved one of his is brutally murdered, all hell breaks loose in the rez. Jason Aaron got his big break in the comic industry with this ultra-violent comic, which boasts of well fleshed out characters and some of the best character developments I've ever seen in comic books. By the end, I couldn't believe who I was rooting for. This was quite an uncomfortable read at times. I couldn't help but watch as the characters kept making one bad choice after another and were pretty much doomed from the start without any redemption in sight. Besides being a crime story, the book also depicts vividly the plight of the Native Americans, which reminded me of the 2017 film Wind River. R. M. Guéra's illustrations were perfect for the noir aspect of the comic, and Jock's phenomenal cover art was the icing on the cake. If you're into comic books or crime stories in general, this is a book you should not miss.",
   "I have mixed feelings on Scalped. On the one hand, I enjoyed its grittiness. Despite not actually liking any of the characters, I was left wanting more, which is kind of unusual for me. On the other hand, I am bothered by the racist implications of some of it. The title, for one thing. And, of course, the book starts out with a scalping. Also, the book shows only the darker side of reservation life, and an exaggerated version of it, at that. So I'm torn. I know that dark stories like this have been told about other groups, and those aren't necessarily racist. But the average reader probably knows something about how the stories relate to reality with other groups. With Native Americans, there are probably still a lot of people who don't know the reality well enough to know where Scalped is exaggerated. That could be damaging.  In the end, I will probably read more of this series, but I probably won't carry the books into work, for fear of causing offense. ",
   "Jason Aaron's Scalped left me a little on the half empty portion of my glass. I was hoping that I would get something with a little more substance. However, Scalped is a little too cliché ridden to be considered something amazing. The badass of the story Dashiell  Dash  Bad Horse skipped out on his shitty life on the reservation when he was 13 in hopes of finding something better. He's an angry guy and butts heads with just about every person he comes across. Why did he return? I hope Scalped gets better. I see the potential to get more interesting. Right now though, the initial offering is not enough to get me excited to read the next one right away. I will return though at some point and see where Dash and his journey takes me.",
   "Not impressed. I picked this comic up months ago and had attempted to read it but wasn't very interested. So I set it down and waited for it to appeal to me. Today was that day. And I'm still not impressed. As a Native American, I thought that finally we had a comic book for our race, for our people. But I'm not sure if it was more offensive or more boring. I don't know much about the author of this graphic novel but I can tell you that maybe that haven't had enough exposure to indian life. I thought this could have been much better. Sadly, it's just like everything else the white man has put his hands on; a gross stereotypical glance at America's first people.",
   "Taken as a whole, this book is a train wreck. By itself, the art isn't too bad. A bit heavy on the blacks, and a bit overly detailed on the faces so everyone looks craggy and/or dirty. Rereading Alan Moore's Swamp thing at the moment and I can see where the style came from. I prefer the older stuff myself, but it does fit the general tone of the story which is SUPER dark and gritty. The page layouts are probably the best part of the art IMHO. Not really saying much, but it's something. Some people's page layouts are just a total snore. The story, again, by itself isn't too bad. I'm not a great connoisseur of gritty crime fiction, but even I could see where this plot was going a mile away. Not to mention the fact that the dialog wasn't anything to write home about, and the timeline jumping often feels disjointed and amateurish. As if that's just something that mature adult graphic novels do so Jason Aaron had to fit it in somewhere. Of course it almost goes without mentioning that Aaron's portrayal of women is less then stellar to boot. I mean, they would probably be pretty kick ass if they were real people, but since we are in a balls deep in grit sort of man's world comic one gets herself killed (the peace activist of course) and the other is a  whore and a liar. And if you got a lick o' goddamn sense you'll stay way the hell away from her.  or so says her father. Of course the chief has few good words for anyone. Not only does he not approve of his daughter's sex life, he also doesn't like activists (because back in his day, burning flags and killing feds didn't accomplish anything), and he and Dashiel Dead Horse get to bond over their mutual disdain for their people's  dead  traditions. Because we aren't going to have to put up with enough racist bullshit from the Feds. Which takes us to the point where this book started slipping below average. Not only is native culture cut down at every opportunity, the promoters of this book have the audacity to celebrate Aaron as a true American writer, because what's more AMERICAN then a dying culture? In the last paragraph of his introduction, Brian K Vaughan of all people has the audacity to promote Aaron's work as  well-researched yet imaginative, funny but serious, political and politically incorrect, SCALPED is further proof that the most exciting new writer in comics is an American.  And yet everything that Aaron does falls firmly in the camp of perpetuating racial stereotypes, harmful racial stereotypes if we are being completely honest here.  Labeling Scalped as  Politically incorrect  as if its a good thing, Vaughan is acting as if people don't want to think that native people are all a bunch of slacker drunk, drug dealers and pimps. What Aaron is doing is not cool or rebellious, it's echoing the colonialist establishment that wants to assuage its own guilt over the misstatement of native peoples. For someone who supposedly able to write  about the united states with both the burning passion and the uniquely vitriolic rage that's difficult to balance if you didn't gestate inside the lovely belly of this cruel beast.  Aaron spends a whole lot of time pitting native against native, relegating all of the USA's sins to the distant past. So while I will be the first to admit that not every single native person ever takes issue with this comic, and that's their right, I am not just pulling this stuff out of my ass either. It's not as if the comic book industry is overflowing with native representation, and it really disgusts me when one of the only comics that most people will ever see perpetuates such derogatory views of native peoples. Of course do stay tuned as I continue my way through the series. While I had originally planned on not wasting my time on the entire series, apparently I'm just to positive when it comes to reviewing comics.",
   "The first graphic novel I've read on Kindle and it was a great experience. They have a thing called  panel view  which allows you to read one panel at a time, making the experience so much more cinematic. Now, the only real complaint I have against SCALPED is that it suffers a little bit of a baditude problem. The protagonist Dashiell Bad Horse is such a badass, it barely feels like he's in danger at any time. He just mows down entire rooms of people while sputtering one liners about hating his life. Otherwise, this is pretty great. I love that Bad Horse himself is a mystery gradually unveiled through other characters. It's great storytelling. His mere presence invokes terrible memories for terrible people. It's especially a problem for the arrogant chief Lincoln Red Crow, who thinks he can handle him and use him to his advantage. The moral line is up to the reader to draw in SCALPED, which I loved. Definitely going after Vol.2 in a couple weeks.",
   "Hmmm. I mean...I like edgy. I really do. I enjoy works that take risks. I enjoy works with something to say. Of course I do. And I love works that address Native American history and issues. BUT...sorry, I just don't think I can finish this graphic novel. It's got the main character slapping his mother in the first part. Then the only other female character is this busty hardened woman who is washed over with a rather rude male gaze when she is first presented. The cursing feels over done (and I LIKE cursing!). All the men are just filthy and gross. Prostitutes, drunken bar brawls, double agents, gangsters, yaaaaaaawn. The story...man, this isn't going to work for me. ",
   "Believe the hype. Jason Aaron's tale about life and crime on an Indian Reservation is multi-layered, uncomfortable at times and excellent. The gritty slightly off-kilter artwork complements the gritty slightly off-kilter writing. If you have ever wanted to read a great comic book story, this is it.",
   'Great start to one of the best comics in recent years.',
   'Eh not my thing.',
   "NOTE: This here is more of a 4.5-star rating, and I'll explain why I didn't add the final half-a-star in a bit, but first I want to draw attention to the indelible Garth Ennis, who has emphatically encouraged potential readers to not only pick up SCALPED, but to also blog about it, to bug friends about it, and to write glowing online reviews about it. I kind of added that last part, but, what can I say? SCALPED actually IS that good. THANKS GARTH ENNIS! Thank you so very much! Uh, I kinda jumped onto this book late, you see. Very late, actually, just around the time that the series was wrapping up, in fact. Sorta not my fault, though, as I've been out of the comics-loop for awhile now. Fortunately, having always had faith in DC's Vertigo imprint, I moseyed on over to the local comic shop to pick up some books in the line, with an eye on grabbing anything written by A-list writers with whom I was already familiar. Thus, as I flipped through various issues of David Lapham's YOUNG LIARS series (intriguing), I kept seeing Garth Ennis's GLOWING comments about some Native American-themed crime series written by some dude named Jason Aaron. 'Well,' I thought, 'Ennis DID write PREACHER, and he's handling himself well, so far, on the new SHADOW series, so... Maybe if I see a good deal on eBay.' And, so, yeah, as soon as I saw a good deal for SCALPED on eBay, I jumped all over it. In retrospect, though, it chills me to the CORE to note just how many risks I took in deciding to finally read this series. Burrr. People, listen, do NOT take the same risks that I took waiting for  the right deal  on eBay or anywhere else to finally take the plunge with this series. Get these books NOW. As you will see, I have given SCALPED a LOT of thought. And, I gotta say, this title is not only the best comic book that I have ever read (as in, ever, ever, ever), it is one of the best epics--crime or otherwise--that I have experienced anywhere since at least HBO's THE WIRE. So why not a 5-star review? Lemme explain... On the surface, SCALPED isn't all THAT impressive. Ha. I mean, we've seen this story before: ***SPOILER*** A troubled young man with a big secret (hint: he's law enforcement) returns to his old godforsaken reservation in South Dakota with a plan to infiltrate the local crime syndicate, whereby the conflicted anti-hero in question will wrestle with some old and very powerful demons, both personal and otherwise. Sound familiar? Despite the reservation-setting, I could be talking about anything from THE DEPARTED to the very movie that Aaron himself has cited as a direct influence on SCALPED--namely STATE OF GRACE. ***SPOILER OVER*** Coupled with Vertigo's well-meaning attempts to hype up SCALPED as THE SOPRANOS on a Native American reservation, then, I was honestly not expecting much in the way of ground-breaking greatness from this series--despite Ennis's glowing recommendations. How come? Well, for starters, Ennis's humbling enthusiasm notwithstanding, in most cases, conceptual  twists  that provide mere cosmetic changes to another story's cultural milieu, such as a change in the setting, or the racial make-up of the characters, their gender orientation, etc., tend to provide just that--mere cosmetic changes, which, in truth, are simply excuses to regurgitate great stories that have obviously already been told better elsewhere. So, unless a conceptual alteration truly adds a new organic dimension to the original story's core themes, the  twist  in question creates no new real storytelling possibilities. Dig? In the case of SCALPED, however, the setting makes ALL the difference where thematic innovation is concerned. And yet, though awesomely spectacular in its own right, INDIAN COUNTRY in itself doesn't quite live up to the series' overall conceptual greatness, hence the second reason why I'm not giving this volume a 5-star rating: As wonderful as volume one might be, SCALPED kinda takes a couple of volumes to REALLY come into its own as a classic series, reaching its apex at around the midpoint of its 60-issue run, IMHO. Having said that, I don't mean to suggest that INDIAN COUNTRY does not kick serious butt on its own. No, no, no. Believe me, you WILL get your money's worth here. In fact, opening in medias res on an intensely maniacal note, Aaron definitely tries his best to hook the reader in from the get-go: Single-handedly taking on a room-full of extremely dangerous-looking thugs with only a pair of nunchucks, the story's protagonist, Dashiell Bad Horse, immediately lives up to his name, establishing himself as a compelling force of nature with some MAJOR emotional and psychological issues to overcome. Not surprisingly, then, Dash is soon offered a job working as a local cop/enforcer by Lincoln Red Crow; possibly the series' most compelling character, Red Crow is not only the Lakota Prairie Rose Reservation's tribal chief (among other things), he's also in the process of becoming its very own Michael Corleone (by-way-of-DEAD WOOD's-Al Swearengen), as this ex-Native American activist is on the verge of opening an illegally funded tribal-owned casino in Lakota country. Despite harboring serious doubts and genuine puzzlement as to why Dashiell has returned to the reservation after having flown the coup as a teenager, Red Crow has his own plans and surprises for Bad Horse, not to mention his own personal demons to exercise as well. As we will soon see, Dash and his family will prove instrumental in Red Crow's brutal struggle to re-discover a sense of grace in the hellish South Dakotan desert, a seemingly impossible feat that will play out through the course of the entire series. Speaking of brutality and grace. R.M. Guera. Whoa. Where'd THIS cat come from? Rugged, vulgar, yet somehow graceful, Guera's artwork is instrumental in not only establishing but maintaining the dark, grimy, and visceral tone of Aaron's intense writing, which often erupts in spontaneous bursts of brutal violence and candid sex (often at the same time). Indeed, excruciatingly detailed, yet fidgety around the edges, Guera's comic book art is rare in its brand of genius: Capturing candid moments in the proceedings, rather than merely providing stiff but cool-looking poses ala Jim Lee, Guera sketches-in portraits, creating flawed characters that seem to actually live, breathe, and bleed within environments that are heart-breakingly believable. Frankly, this series would not have worked as well as it does without Guera's immense contribution. A side note here on how Guera draws his femme fatales. Damn. LOL. By and large, Guerra's women are not simply as well-endowed as your typical comic book heroine (especially up top), they're also as plain-looking as The Girl Next Door, and somehow coming off all the sexier for it. To be sure, coupled with Aaron's libidinous scripts, Guerra's visuals also make SCALPED a very sexy comic book. Not for kids. And yet, as significant as Guera's many contributions might be, as I mentioned earlier, in the noirish crime world of SCALPED, the wild-west setting of  The Rez  makes ALL the difference. To be certain, by placing SCALPED directly within the tragic confines of a Native American reservation, Aaron not only suggests the doomed landscapes of traditional noir, he simultaneously imbues his hell-on-earth with a plausible spiritual dimension: Very much still a part of the reservation's tribal roots, the spirit world in SCALPED lends a refreshing depth and credibility to the inner conflicts of archetypal noir figures who would otherwise have no hope of self-assertion but to tragically become the very evil that would oppress them. By embracing the spiritual point of view of the Lakota, then, Aaron creates a rare space within which a genuine sense of hope can exist for otherwise doomed film-noir characters who we KNOW in our heart of hearts are going DOWN. Though the reader himself might not necessarily believe in spirit animals or in otherworldly guides, he will care all the more for the desperate characters of SCALPED because THEY do. Indeed, as their present world will most surely fall apart around them, the old world's potentially crazy tribal beliefs might still be the only reason that these characters have to not only preserver and to lead good lives but to to also keep hoping for grace and salvation, if not necessarily for an escape from Hell (go figure). On that note, I must stress the significance of Aaron's bold decision here to deepen his norish landscape with the Lakota people's spiritual views. I mean, Aaron is not merely injecting his characters with arbitrary  internal arcs  in order to embellish their external character arcs with emotional and psychological depth here, people. (The kind of hoary by-the-numbers Hollywood practice that ruined Ben Affleck's character in THE TOWN, an otherwise good movie!) On the contrary, with all due respect to writers like Brian Azzarello, to these eyes, by imbuing his characters with rich and compelling inner-lives, Aaron has pretty much revived an entire genre that has LONG ago grown increasingly tedious with stylized mannerisms and an affected sense of gloom and doom. This is, like, a big accomplishment. Sounds like intimidatingly heavy stuff, though, right? Alas, don't be scared away, fearless reader. None of this profundity would mean a thing if Aaron didn't also deliver the goods on a basic story-telling level. The tragic grandeur of the Prairie Rose Reservation notwithstanding, for my money, the real star of the show here is Jason Aaron. I can see why this series has vaulted him into stardom (or at least into the Marvel stables, anyway). SCALPED is not only an incredibly moving experience, it's also amazingly entertaining, a combination of qualities that not all critically acclaimed series in the Vertigo line can boast (see: AIR, which is conceptually ambitious but ultimately unengaging in its execution, IMHO). Jason Aaron not only must have been born knowing story structure and how to write compelling characters, someone must have also taught him. He's just too damn good at this. Final verdict: Featuring top-notch dialogue, relentless action, deft plot twists, compelling characters, and profound themes, SCALPED will keep your palms sweaty and your pulse-pounding as you rifle through its pages like a  hell-bent-for-leather  madman yourself. So buy SCALPED, people, blog about it, bug your friends about it, and write glowing online reviews for it. I know I have.",
   "While this is just the first volume I can see why this title has the reputation of being Aaron's best work. I read his Ghost Rider, and scanned through some of his X-Men work, and while over the top fun (including some near LOL moments) they are nowhere near as serious as this title. Here Aaron doesn't have to worry about company wide crossovers etc. It his world and we are welcomed into the tale he is crafting. This is a crime story, but unlike most such stories it's not set in a major urban center. The setting is the Prairie Rose Indian Reservation, and this volume really is an intro and sets the base for what is probably coming down the road. Dashiel Bad Horse returns to the reservation after being gone for more than a decade and ends up in a bar fight. Which he pretty much wins, against everybody until numbers take him down. Which leads to Dash being offered a job as a policeman for the Native American police force on the reservation. Which as we hit the end of this volume is pushing Dash to be reckless while he tries to maintain his cover. You see Dash is an undercover FBI agent, and even then he's a pawn in one agent's plan for revenge against the current chief. The entire story has plot points that go back about 20 years, and it appears that these plot points will figure into the story taking pace in current time.  So this is a meet the cast, get the story basics, and start wondering whom is playing whom against whom."],
  '_version_': 1748767597945421824},
 {'id': '31662',
  'author': ['David Estes'],
  'book_format': 'Ebook',
  'description': "Spreading darkness...,Guilty of treason for which the penalty is death, Taylor's angel boyfriend, Gabriel, has been captured.,The fate of the world sits on a knife's edge with Taylor being the key to everything.,Taylor's aura is growing stronger, but will it be enough to save Gabriel and defeat the Archangel Council?",
  'genre': ['Paranormal',
   'Angels',
   'Young Adult',
   'Fantasy',
   'Romance',
   'Demons',
   'Paranormal Romance'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1327898264l/12974699.jpg',
  'isbn': '1466422874',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12974699-demon-evolution',
  'page_count': '342',
  'rating': 4.04,
  'review_count': 39,
  'title': 'Demon Evolution',
  'rating_count': 288,
  'sensitivity': ['demons', 'war', 'fire'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'twisted',
   'complex',
   'dying',
   'cute',
   'predictable',
   'new',
   'recommend',
   'hilarious',
   'spoiled',
   'rare',
   'revenge',
   'fantastic',
   'powerful',
   'favorite',
   'funny',
   'obsessed',
   'wonderful',
   'adorable',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'realistic',
   'surprise',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'surprising',
   'twist',
   'different',
   'dumb',
   'emotional',
   'banter',
   'struggling',
   'hooked',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'lacked',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'magical',
   'perfect',
   'annoyed',
   'dark',
   'surprised',
   'captured',
   'original',
   'annoying',
   'unrelatable',
   'unusual',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["I wish I could give half stars, because I would give it 2.5 stars. Goodreads defines 2 stars as  it was okay , but it was somewhere between ok and  I liked it .  Update  I upgraded the stars from 2 to 3, because even though I felt it was more like 2.5, I should round up :) The writing was improved from the last and the storyline was better. The last half of the book, the suspense and action picked up, and the ending was a good lead in for the third book. I liked the battle scenes in this one, and the twist with Taylor I thought was really good. But I had a hard time with the fact that characters were still  trying to have a good time  in the midst of dangerous or emotional situations. Such as when everyone played pool before the mission to save Gabriel's parents. It just made me lose that emotional connection that develops in intense situations.  And I have a problem with the tense being used throughout. It is third person past, but many times it uses the past-perfect tense and that slows things down when not used well or appropriately. (for example,  she had wanted  vs.  she wanted ). It's a minor thing, but tends to detract from certain situations.  I did enjoy this book more than the first. You got to see the characters develop more. Early on I wasn't sure if I was going to read the third but now I have to, because the ending left me wondering...",
   "I liked the ideas in this, but I felt it lacked in the actual construction. The  twists  we're too obvious, making it glaringly obvious to the reader what was about to happen. If we put that issue aside for a minute, this could have been a 4 or even 5 star book. It certainly had the makings of one, with the unique look at good vs evil and angels vs demons. I guess I just wanted to be surprised a little by something in Demon Evolution, and sadly I wasn't. I still plan to read book #3, even if it is only so I can find out how it all ends, that part still seems a little murky, but definitely leaning towards the good guys. Things I noticed:  37% through on the kindle:  they were used to this particularLY attack strategy, as the demons frequently used it in battle ",
   'The story get so much more intense in this book. As much as I like the first book, this one is my favorite out of the two, so far. My favorite character is Chris. I like his humor and quick wit. I loved the laid back feeling of playing pool and just hanging out with knowing that something was always about to happen. The suspense had me turning the pages faster than I could read them. I loved the fight scene as well. full of action and I am itching to find out what happens to David.  I cant wait to start book #3!!!',
   "Demon Evolution is a great continuation in the trilogy. I love the characters and the twists and turns the story took. I can't wait to read the final book.",
   "Demon Evolution Joint Review David Estes Jasmines Review: I can't even explain how amazing this was. Some sequels are sad a depressing. This was adorable and exciting. It wasn't even possible to predict what was going to happen next. There were so many twists. I personally liked the demons way way way more than the angels. Taylor and Gabriel are OMG soul mates for life. Their so adorable. The fact that Taylor can forgive Gabriel for anything so easily shows how much she really loves him. I kind of want my own puppy gargoyle. I love how Sam is such a big part of this book. She and Taylor are in the same boat. I'm glad they have each other to rely on. The amount of romance in this is magical. Sam and Chris are so flirty and cute. I'm really glad Sampson and Kiren got together. Gabriel has become the love of my life. Sampson is adorable and hilarious. Overall this was amazing, different, and exciting. I read it in less than 10 hours. I've already bought and started the third and final book. So in case you hadn't noticed I really enjoyed this. I highly recommend it.  5/5 Stars Marissa Review: This is hardly a review it's more me just fangirling so be warned. Demon Evolution was even better than the first. There was way more action and romance and twists and just more everything. It was so exciting I couldn't stop reading it and I finished it in a day. I loved the characters even more in this book. Yet again Taylor blew me away by how strong she was and Gabriel sigh he was fantastic. I love him and Taylor they're adorable. Lommel :). Sam and Chris were still hilarious and cute. I loved Kirens hair of course and she and Sampson were so cute I love how their all paired up now :) The whole David thing makes me so sad. I totally did not see the big twist at the end coming. I had to get the next one and I've already started it.  5/5 stars",
   'Demon Evolution, the second book to Angel Evolution unfortunately did not have the same pace nor did it hold the same interest for me as the first book did. The author really developed the characters however the storyline became a little predictable. However I am a fan and I will read the last book, Archangel Evolution to see how the series concludes. ',
   "Actual rating is 4.5 stars. Well this was fun! If I had to describe this second installation of the Evolution Trilogy in one word I would say  development . That is to say that instead of just continuing on telling the story in typical  middle book  fashion, it felt much more focused on building the characters and cultivating relationships. All the while using this to really enhance the story and build foundations for what is to come in  Archangel Evolution . We begin the story right where we left it after Gabriel has been captured by the angels and thrown into a dark prison cell. Taylor is still struggling with how hurt she is after realizing the depth of all of Gabriel's lies, and coming to terms with her own feelings and decisions regarding their relationship. All of this angst while worrying about him being captured and potentially executed! This is a lot for our dear Taylor to handle, however she has already shown us her strength and resilience, and here we get to see it again. Taylor, Gabriel, Sam, Chris and the now included Sampson and Kiren, are all wonderful throughout the book as their relationships continue to blossom. Though I kept getting the feeling that when their group was together, they seemed a little bipolar. Despite all of the horrible events taking place just about every day, they were always able to makes jokes, crack up laughing, and just enjoy relaxing, eating, and playing pool. While some people might say that this makes them a little unbelievable or unrelatable, I think that it builds these characters personalities and shows that joy can still be found among troubled times. What fun would it be if they always went around with doom and gloom written all over their faces! I was a little upset by the information about the demon gargoyles. I was hoping that since the demons seem to be more compassionate and evolved emotionally, that their gargoyles wouldn't just be bred for their uses in war. I really don't like the idea the if demons breed with demons, and angels with angels, that they produce offspring that just gets taken to live in a cell until a battle comes. It is so heartless and I was sad to see it takes place on both sides. Though there is hope in little Rocky who instantly develops a bond with Taylor, completely abnormally. I have a feeling we will see more of Rocky in the next book, and I swear if he sacrifices himself to save Taylor on the battlefield I will throw a tantrum! David Estes  gave us an exciting read with plenty of room for more surprises and action in  Archangel Evolution . I enjoyed it more than  Angel Evolution , which leads me to believe that I will probably enjoy the next even more!",
   "What an awesome sequel to Angel Evolution! Like...Wow! The end of Angel Evolution left me dying to learn the fates of the characters, especially my darling Gabriel! *Squeal* There was SO much suspense and drama in this book that it drove me crazy! And crazy in the best way! I'm still obsessed with Gabriel, and one day, I swear he'll be my boyfriend :) To be honest, Taylor kind of annoyed me in this book because she was constantly trying to downplay her feelings for Gabriel so she would be independent. I understand where she's coming from, but to me it seemed like she went overboard with that. It made her seem a bit cold to me. The action was non-stop in this one, and I love, love, loooove that in a novel. There were several :O moments and quite a few xD moments in there, as well as the occassional ;) and the very rare, but equally astonishing >:D  Taylor's  evolution  has me intrigued, and I can't wait to see what exactly this means for her in the final book of this awesome trilogy! Gabriel's inner turmoil almost made me cry! :( His devotion not only to Taylor but also to his family made me fall even deeper in love with him, and I can't wait to see how he'll handle the whole David situation in the end. Dionysus makes me angry, but he's a darn scary villain. I'll give him that much. Kick his butt, Tay! Take him down! *Throws pom-poms in the air* On to Archangel Evolution! Can't wait! :)",
   "War, revenge, traitors, romance, Angels, Demons. This book has it all. Demon Evolution is not your typical 'middle' book in a trilogy. Instead of just going on with the story, Estes gave us more depth to the characters and more reasons to care.  The close-knit group of friends has an awesome dynamic. Each has their own personality and meshed together they are fantastic. You really can't help but like them and want to be part of their group. This pulls the reader in. It makes you care when their lives are spinning out of control. The action was great and had me hooked. However, with every bit of action, we need some down time to recoup. Estes has a knack for adding just the right amount of humor with a dash of sugar, and a touch of spice at the perfect time to keep you going and also allows for a breath of air before the next bomb hits. Also, I have to say it. I love Rocky. :) Definitely curious to see what happens with this new pet.    Here's where it lost a star for me. Aside from the few inconsistencies and technical issues, the storyline was a bit too predictable especially towards the end, and a few of the twists were very predictable. That said, I'm still a fan and this segment of the series was better than the last. I will be reading the next one for sure and definitely recommend this series.",
   " Demon Evolution picks up right where Angel Evolution left off. I'm not going to say where exactly. I'm a little hesitant to give much of a synopsis for those who haven't read Angel Evolution yet. I don't want to spoil it. Angels vs. Demons, good vs. evil, add in a couple of teenage romances with their usual angst and volatile mood swings and you have a wonderful combination of assorted conflicts and adventure.   Estes brilliantly uses small cliffhangers and foreshadowing to keep you in that state of  oh, one more chapter before I  ... fill in the blank. That urge of suspense and yearning to know what will happen next left me turning pages long after my sense of responsibility had ordered me to bed for the night.    David displays great skill at moving the story along without it being too fast paced and hard to keep up with. There is just no way around it, I must give this a PYOL rating. While I haven't read the third book in the series yet, I suspect the entire series will earn my highest rating/warning that my family must Plan Your Own Life because nothing short of a house fire will tear me away from this book. I'm sure I would even grab my Kindle on my way out the door. I need something to do while waiting for fire rescue after all.  ",
   "I know it took me so very long to finally read the evolution trilogy books, but I finally got the books out of my bookshelf and read them. this book was amazing just like the first one. I did not expect what happened in this 2nd book at all with Gabriel's brother, that part really took me by surprise specially the ending of the last book. This trilogy ass amazingly written and David Estes did a great job with all the characters specially Taylor. I've read so many books and in most of them the the main character is weak and annoying always needing protection and running for cover specially doing dumb things but Taylor was nothing like that she was always so brave, strong and wanting to kick butt just like Gabriel. TEAM DEMON!!! I Recommend, great read!",
   "Wow! Demon Evolution was even better than the first book for me. Again, you can't help but fall in love with the amazing characters. No wimpy, whiney, co-dependent heroes or heroines at all. Everyone pulls their weight and all are courageous and strong,which I love about David's books! As usual, the banter going on between the friends is very humorous and funny, another characteristic of David's books that I enjoy so much. And again, I seem to enjoy the  best friend  the most; Sam...! I can't wait to find out how Taylor continues her amazing journey in  Archangel Evolution !",
   "Where to being with this review…  I first must say that I totally and completely LOVED this book!! It was far better than the first book. The characters truly have “evolved” is every way. There was no lack of suspense, humor or any lovey -doveyness. Every page I turned just made me never want to stop.  In the midst of the battle between Angel and Demon, Gabriel sees the errors he has made and goes against everything he's been taught since childhood. And why do you think he did this? Because he feel in love! He gets captured and that's where the fun beings. This book also let you see how much the relationship (of each of key character) has grown. i.e. Taylor and Gabriel, Sam and Chirs and I can't forget the odd couple Kiren and Sampson! I highly recommend it!",
   "This is a great continuation of the story started in Angel Evolution. There are surprising alliances, spies, traitors, a great new romance, and a rather unusual pet... A great dynamic has developed among the circle of friends, which of course endears them all to the reader and has you in their corner barracking for the win. This series is really refreshing and I'm happy that the author is able to execute his ideas well and with purpose. In the middle of a whole lot of angel/demon books that have emerged recently, David has found a few original ideas to throw into the mix - making this book definitely worth the read.",
   "What can I say; it was like nonstop suspense and action with some humor. I can see my boys' reading Evolution Trilogy. I definitely enjoyed reading Demon Evolution. This author uses many metaphors to help you picture the story. I would love to read a series about the three couples's children. We know that an angle + angle = gargoyle, demon + demon = gargoyle and angle + human = angle or demon + human = demon, but what do you get when it is Gabriel (angle) & Taylor (unknown), and Sampson (angle) & Kiren (demon). All I can say read the first book you will want to read the rest.",
   "A fun and interesting read, I felt like a lot of the characters grew and became much more realistic in this book. I loved that we got a deeper look into the angel world and met many others who disagree with the  plan  Sampson is a fun new character and I loved little rocky and Gabriel's family. Chris is still awesome. There are some flaws but over all the books was a good second to angel evolution and a good read.  Looking forward to the next one to see how it all plays out in the end. ",
   "I do not enjoy this as much as  Angel Evolution  but it was still a good read. I found parts of it predictable but understood why things had to happen. Estes did a great job throughout the book strengthening all of the relationships, which I am guessing will be essential to the final fight. Can't wait to read on and find out how things are resolved!",
   "3.5 stars. I enjoyed this second installment of the evolution trilogy more than the first, but still have serious issues with Taylor, the heroine. She needs to realize that it's ok for a woman to be strong and feel protected by the man who loves her at the same time, we are complex creatures ;-).  I loved the twists and turns and the evilness of Dionysis, the angel we all love to despise!",
   'A fantastic twist to the angel and demon relationships. Where light is not always good and dark is not always bad. I enjoyed reading about the ever changing relationships of the many characters. A book I really enjoyed reading and once I started reading it I could not put it down. ',
   "Ruddy hell! This book was awesome! It rocketed along at breakneck pace with some very tense action scenes and I actually like the character of Taylor now. It's a lot different from all the other paranormal romances in that you can't guess what's coming and the central couple aren't predictable. ",
   "Loved that it picked up right where it left off of Angel Evolution. Again humor, action, and the love story had me intrigued and I couldn't put the book down! ",
   'Great book! Good job David.',
   'Another fantastic book by David Estates, that had my gripped straight away. Off to buy the third part now to see what happens to everyone :) ',
   'Now this book was a page turner. With twists and turns, I did not anticipate. Yes, I really enjoyed this book. ',
   'Great follow up for a fast moving total engrossing book',
   'I loved this even more than the first one! It was so good! ',
   "This book is a part of  David Estes ' Evolution Trilogy. In my opinion, the series gets better in this book. I love the fact that the female characters, Taylor and Sam, even though they're human, are strong, not whiny and not co-dependent on their boyfriends to be saved all the time. The book focused on developing the characters more and giving us a feel that something more is in store for the readers. Not the typical  middle  book, where it just picks up where things were left off from the first book. There was more action, adventure, new twists and turns in this book. Pick up the books from the  Evolution Trilogy . It has a unique plot which becomes more and more exciting until the last book!",
   'the battle of demon vs angel continues... this time we see taylor has evolved into a superior type angel. i guess that comes from having a powerful aura. though my guess was wrong, i thought she evolved as a result of her union with gabriel. lol. i am not sure they have done the deed or not, as i was speed reading some parts.  real twisted to get his own brother to turn against him. more action this round and as usuals the youngsters saved the world again. not forgetting, their main source of victory came from a girl...',
   "I am just not in love with this trilogy the way I am with David Estes' others. As usual the writing, character development etc was spot on. Perhaps, even though David's other books (Dwellers and Country books), are aimed at younger audiences than myself, this particular trilogy is too young for my tastes.  I would recommended this trilogy for girls my daughters age, pre-teen or early teen. The plot was predictable, and the romances were not intriguing enough. Demon Evolution seemed to lack the character depth and chemistry that the first book had.",
   "Three stars for book one, three for book two. The writing did get better, and I am an Estes fan for life... ...that being said, I am taking a break from this trilogy. I can't stand Taylor, and frankly don't get how anyone puts up with her. Then again, before this series, I read through the eyes of two masterpieces: Adele and Siena, so maybe I've been a bit spoiled. Adele and Siena came after Taylor, I know. But after those two... It's a tough act to follow.  I will return to this series in the near future, but only because David Estes wrote this."],
  '_version_': 1748767597992607744},
 {'id': '31680',
  'author': ['Emma Raveling'],
  'book_format': 'Ebook',
  'description': 'It has been six months since ondine Kendra Irisavie arrived in Haverleau, the hidden capital of the water elemental world.,Six months since she discovered her destiny as the sondaleur.,Six months since a series of devastating events left behind their mark. ,Now, as she enters the chevalier elite program in her final year at Lumiere Academy, Kendra continues forward on her prophesied journey against the Shadow. Obsessed with what she must do to keep those around her safe, she struggles to balance her powerful magic and the demands of her fate with the challenges of friendship, the complications of romance, and the bonds of family. ,Meanwhile, the threat of the Shadow looms larger. Kendra and her friends investigate a series of puzzling human and elemental disappearances in the city of Lyondale and uncover a horrifying tactic used by the Aquidae in the war.,When danger strikes close to home, Kendra must separate the truths from the lies and choose who and what to believe. ,Even if it means facing what she fears the most.',
  'genre': ['Fantasy',
   'Paranormal',
   'Young Adult',
   'Romance',
   'Magic',
   'Urban Fantasy',
   'Mythology',
   'Paranormal Romance',
   'Supernatural',
   'Young Adult Fantasy'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1340207714l/12976398.jpg',
  'isbn': '984022554',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12976398-billow',
  'page_count': '358',
  'rating': 4.17,
  'review_count': 88,
  'title': 'Billow',
  'rating_count': 1839,
  'sensitivity': ['grief', 'demons', 'war', 'death', 'kidnapping', 'trauma'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['stunning',
   'unique',
   'dying',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'magic',
   'favorite',
   'complicated',
   'struggled',
   'fun',
   'twist',
   'emotional',
   'struggling',
   'tiresome',
   'bad',
   'captivated',
   'phenomenal',
   'entertaining',
   'kidnapping',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'popular',
   'complex',
   'smile',
   'fantastic',
   'powerful',
   'important',
   'worse',
   'best',
   'sweet',
   'rooting',
   'surprised',
   'captivating',
   'subtle',
   'irritating',
   'top',
   'relatable',
   'hilarious',
   'revenge',
   'hate',
   'worthy',
   'regret',
   'shocked',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'great',
   'touching',
   'heart',
   'invested',
   'hooked',
   'swoon',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'sucker',
   'beautiful',
   'annoying',
   'sexy',
   'fierce',
   'struggle',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'spoiled',
   'stupid',
   'relate',
   'beloved',
   'wonderful',
   'comfort',
   'interesting',
   'surprise',
   'different',
   'lovely',
   'banter',
   'easy',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'magical',
   'wonderfully',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["OMG! This book was immense definitely worth the long wait!  This book was just as good as the first and held its own! I was not disappointed one bit!  Really liked the twist with Ian- I SO did not see that coming.  I am falling hard for Julian he's always there and his power just adds to his appeal.  Tristan pissed me off at first but at the end he redeemed himself. I'm glad she chose Leveq to go with her at the end! This should be interesting. And above it all I hope Marcella obtains a miracle pulls through and becomes Governer. She'd be good at the position,  I love Nexa and Jeeves their quite amusing and find their roles and characters very entertaining.  I'm glad Kendra finally managed to find herself at the end.  This book did not disappoint and was so fast paced and action packed I was not bored for one second. I could not put this down. Can't wait to see what happens!",
   "There is so much to love about this book.   Billow has been on my wish list for a while ever since I finished reading Whirl the first book in Ondine Quartet Series which caught my eye on Goodreads. And I am not disappointed, great work Emma ! Can't wait to read Crest. ",
   '5*s Loved it! Love Tristan ! Review posted here http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?se...',
   "I loved this book. The writing has leaped and matured great strides from the first book. There's a command to Raveling's words here, and moments of such sincerity and fragility, it took my breath away. I relished the moments, though scant, between Tristan and Kendra. Their conversations are beautiful, provoking and tender.   So maybe you're looking at it wrong. Maybe the phrase doesn't mean beautiful war.  My mind traced the contours of his features. Heard the music he gave me, the words he'd said. I shoved my hands deep into my pockets to keep from touching him.  Maybe it means beauty in war.  I cleared my throat and met his gaze.  Maybe it means hope.  His mouth parted and for a long moment, Tristan looked shocked. I found myself growing to admire and like Kendra in this book. In the first book, I found her strangely unaffected by her mom's death, and immature. While this book takes place only 6 months past the events of Whirl, Kendra, along with Raveling's prose, has matured a great deal- she's still hugely imperfect, rash and flawed, but now the writing allows us to witness and share her pain with her. There are also brief moments of wit- sharp, hilarious and punctuating.  I found a great sense of method to Billow; each part crafted and put together, each scene and moment served an important purpose. The world-building is done in greater detail in this novel, with the elements of magic far more intricately explored than in the first book. Here, we are exposed to not only the underwater creatures, but the many layers of magic. We join Kendra as she discovers and explores her powers. And, in stark contrast to the first book, Raveling is able to seamlessly info-dump without it appearing forced- she goes even further to twist and provoke and turn the information into a mass of questions and layers. It's a skill. This series is quickly becoming a favorite and I can not wait for the next installment. ",
   "Review: I enjoyed the first book in this series. It had slightly different subject matter, dealing with Water elementals, than other YA books around at the moment, and I could easily relate to the characters in my mind - which is something I feel is pretty important. However, I had a few small niggles with that one - mainly Kendra's immaturity and attitudes, as well as the seemingly massive imbalance of power between the Ondine and the Aquidae.  This book totally blew that out of the water.  This was definitely a case where the sequel takes everything that's good about the first book, and leaves all the rubbish behind. I enjoyed Billow so much more than I enjoyed Whirl, and it's left me hungry for what's next for Kendra and co.  In this book, Kendra is beginning to really understand what it means to be the Sondaleur - the savior of the Ondine in their ongoing war with the Aquidae. She's finally getting that she means a lot of things to a lot of people, and that it can't just be about her and her personal conflicts anymore.  Tristan was still the hot guy in this, though I kind of felt like I wanted Kendra to give Julian more of a chance - and that's coming from someone who dislikes love triangles! I liked the low simmer between Kendra and Tristan, however, and felt that it worked with the story rather than the love aspect overpowering everything else as sometimes happens in books. Overall, this was much better, in my opinion, than the first book, and I'd really recommend this series to anyone who feels they're getting bored with the normal YA subject matter.  Overall rating:  4.5/5 Writing: 4/5 Originality: 5/5 Characters: 4.5/5 My Enjoyment: 4.5/5",
   "Whirl (Ondine Quartet #1), with its wonderful world-building, engaging characters and superb storytelling, was one of my favorite reads last year, so I was super excited to dive into the sequel, Billow. And I'm happy to report that the sequel does not disappoint in any way. Picking up six months after the end of the first book, Billow finds Kendra struggling to understand the role she must play as sondaleur, while dealing with the emotional and mental trauma of the devastating events in Whirl. Kendra must balance her chevalier training, fragile relationships and familial duties, all while an internal war wages within her. And when a rash of mysterious human and elemental kidnappings occur, Kendra and her friends find themselves battling dangerous Aquidae , as the Shadow looms ever closer. Kendra must choose her path and decide what being sondaleur really means. I loved Whirl because of author Emma Raveling's ability to create an immensely layered and dimensional elemental world, full of engaging and likable characters, while offering readers a captivating and exciting story; all of which is deftly and effectively carried over into Billow. As a sequel, Billow seamlessly expands the story introduced in book one, while introducing new characters; new dangers and plenty of twists and turns. Perfectly paced, Billow flows effortlessly and captivated me from beginning to end. There's a lovely and eloquent beauty to Raveling's writing and she creates incredibly stunning images and palpable emotions with her words, yet her writing and descriptions never feel over the top or flowery. The world-building I loved so much in Whirl is laid out even further and deeper in Billow and the political/cultural/societal world of the ondines continues to be intricate, complex and intriguing. I'm still so impressed with how complete and real this world feels! Our heroine, Kendra, faces a very intense and raw emotional journey in Billow and I love how realistically she reacts to her situation. Kendra is far from perfect- she has a temper, she can be reckless and acts without thinking and is reluctant to ask for help, preferring to do things on her own- but this is what makes her and her story so relatable and easy to connect with. Kendra grows a great deal in this book, both as a leader and as a fighter, and her character growth never feels forced. This is a heroine that readers will not only relate to and love, but believe in. Two of my favorite characters from the first book, Julian and Tristan, continue to enthrall, enrage and excite me! Now, I'm not a fan of love triangles, but the complicated and often hot relationships between Kendra and these two guys never feels like a love triangle. You can feel the layered and tangible connection Kendra has to both of these swoon-worthy guys because Raveling has crafted them so wonderfully. And at this point I have no idea who I'm rooting for…I just lurve them both so much *sigh* The darker elemental powers and magic are explored more in-depth in Billow and this leads to some heart-pounding action and heart-breaking events. I really like the villainy of the Shadow and its Aquidaes because these are “bad guys” that aren't just fun to hate, they're actually incredibly fascinating. I love everything about how the book concludes- the tone, the twists and how it sets up book three. And I CANNOT wait to read book three! MY FINAL THOUGHTS: Billow took me on an exciting journey deeper into the complex and riveting ondine world that Raveling introduced in book one . With heart-racing suspense, excellent and believable character development, enticing romance and exquisite storytelling, this is a must read sequel in a must read series!",
   "Read my full review on:  Paromantasy Billow in one sentence: An action-packed, emotional rollercoaster ride of a read that will grip you from the very beginning and leave you begging for more. It is official - this is one of my favorite urban fantasy series of all-time. When I say it is unputdownable - I mean it and the bags under my eyes can prove it. This installment of the Ondine Quartet series took everything I loved from Whirl and amplified it. It has been six months since the last time we saw them, yet all that happened still haunts the characters.   Kendra was thrust into a situation that has left her confused and isolated, even when there are plenty of people around her that want to help. She lost her mother, learned that she is not only an Ondine (a water elemental) but also the Sondaleur - the prophesized savior of her race, and faced the evil that is Aquidae.   With being the responsibility of being the Sondeleur comes the feeling that the world is on her shoulders. The nightmares of all of the people she has lost and could lose if she doesn't put an end to the Shadow, leader of the evil Aquidae, haunts her. She lost her mom, and her good friend Ryder: how many more will she lose before the war is over? This fear turns to obsession and the darkness seems to be closing in on her. Then the man she thought she'd never see again Tristan, the Selkie Prince, walks back into her life and makes things more complicated. WIll she ever find her path?   With her world spinning out of control, she must learn how to keep the darkness at bay while she battles the Aquidae and tries to take down the Shadow. With her entire race and the people she lovesmost hanging in the balance, will she be able to defeat the Aquidae and put an end to the war, or will the Shadow just continue to take away the people she holds dear until she is left with nothing?   This book is phenomenal! Along with the action, danger, mystery and bits of romance is pain, loss and self-discovery as the characters grow and learn with each situation they face. The layers are slowly peeled back revealing the inner most desires, fears and insecurities of our beloved characters.  Kendra is only 17, but she is a heroine to be reckoned with. She is fierce, dedicated and loyal to her friends. Behind her tough facade is a girl who feels lost and confused. She is a character we can relate to and empathize with. She is thrust with the responsibility of being the Sondaleur, and is also in love with someone she cannot have - not because she is not allowed, but because doing so would be the end of her mortality. That is an obstacle that is unique in that it is not forbidden love, but one which is physically impossible. I do hope Emma Raveling has a plan for Kendra and Tristan because they both deserve happiness. Of course if that does not work out, there is always Julian. I love Julian. He is sarcastic, strong and smart, but has an underlying sweetness. As much as I love Tristan, I can't help but hope that Kendra will at least give Julian a shot. The fact that he is much more involved and fleshed out in this book put a smile on my face. His appearance always guarantees a good time as he and Kendra banter away. Along with our favorite threesome are Kendra's friends and the introduction of a few new charaters who are also going through hard times. They are each so unique and strong in their own way. They are a great group of characters and I guarantte you will find yourself thinking of them as your friends.   All I can say is: Read This Book!! You will not regret it. ",
   "I really liked Billow! It's such a great sequel to Whirl, and I just love this world. As far as paranormal books go, this series is definitely different. I love that it focuses on elementals- and water ones, which is really cool to me! I liked seeing Kendra finally accept and make peace with being the sondaleur (or at least, make some good progress with accepting it) and she really struggled with everything that's happened so far. I thought she was still a bit too independent and willing to run off into danger by herself, but I liked that she finally started to realize that she needed help from others. I really don't blame her for being hellbent on revenge, with everything going on, and surprisingly, it wasn't as irritating or annoying as I was expecting. I think it's because she finally realized that she needed help, and couldn't do it on her own. She did struggle, and that made her feel much more real to me than she did in Whirl, so it's nice to see that change in her. There were times when I was trying not to cry, because it's a much more emotional book than I was expecting. All of the characters had to go through so much and I feel like I understand them so much better after reading Billow. I felt like there's so much more to the characters than we see, and it was particularly noticeable with Tristan and Julian- but with Julian especially. There were quite a few things that surprised me with Julian, but also with some of the other characters too, so I'm glad that they really came to life in Billow. As for the romance, I think Julian is slowly edging out Tristan. Mostly because Tristan is a selkie prince, and I have no clue how that would work out for both of them. I do think Tristan understands what Kendra is going through, to a certain extent, but after this book, I think Kendra and Julian are a much better fit for each other.  Oh, and we get our first true glimpse of the Shadow! I'm nervous for Kendra, but I want her to take down the Shadow so very much. And I'd actually love to see the other elemental communities! You hear about them, so I'm hoping I'm not disappointed when we get to visit them in the next book. Let's Rate It: I'm really looking forward to reading Crest, the next book in the series! Billow is a great sequel (much better than a lot of sequels/second books) and I'm really looking forward to seeing Kendra's journey continue. Billow gets 4 stars.",
   "I dived into  Billow  as soon as I finished  Whirl  because, well after that ending who wouldn't? I was dying to know what would happen next to Kendra and the gang and of course, I was hoping and praying for more Tristan time.....sigh....I do love him!  Anyway, author Emma Raveling did a fantastic job with this fantastic sequel. In  Billow  we see the strong and independent Kendra struggle. After the loss of a friend, she's mourning but to everyone else, she's trying to keep her head above water. She throws herself into trouble to try and forget her pain and not only that, she's trying to forget about the one man that seems to have touched her heart - the problem is, she can never have him. Things are already looking glum for Kendra, but when the evil Aquidae start kidnapping children and adults, Kendra knows she needs to try and put a stop to this and soon her journey begins...... This book was little bit more emotional for me because of the journey Kendra took. It was pretty clear of how much she was struggling to deal with her feelings and I just wanted someone to come along and make everything better for her. And I wanted that someone to be TRISTAN! I'm telling you, the author really does like to keep us readers in suspense when it comes to their relationship and it's killing me. But I do love it. They have beautiful and intense moments together and you can really see how strong they would be together as a couple. However, they obstacles they have to get through and worse than ever. The author throws a huge twist in the end making us believe there is no hope for them....but I have faith.....they belong together so I'm sure she will make this work for them...somehow.  The storyline was exhilarating, suspenseful and thrilling. There's so many engaging scenes too that leave you sitting on the edge of you're seat and by the end of this book, your'll only be wanting more! I for one, can not wait to read more by this talented author and I am eagerly awaiting news on  Crest  - book three in the series's release date. ",
   'A really good sequel!',
   "Billow is a wonderful sequel to Whirl. Stakes are raised and everything changes in this novel. Kendra begins to realize the weight she actually carries and how much sway she has on the future of not only her friends and loved ones but also for her entire race and community. We get more hints of how her destiny fits in with the more powerful beings that oversea this world. It is fascinating to see how she reacts to each of these realizations and highlights her strength, spirit, and stubbornness.  And to balance that out, of course, is Tristan. In a slightly different role in the novel, his place as kindred spirit and confidante established, their relationship in Billow is more mature but no less tortured. They are first and foremost a comfort to one another and I can't express how happy that makes me, shipping aside.  While the world-building continues to be spectacular in Billow, I think the second highest point in this piece are the secondary characters. Aubrey, Ian, Cam, Julian - they all only add to this amazing world and character. Jordain, the powerful figure in charge of the Ondines, also makes significant appearances in Billow, adding not only to Kendra's burden but also to the overall lore in Raveling's world.  I couldn't wait to read Billow after Whirl and I wasn't disappointed. It wasn't what I was expecting but it was exactly what was needed, I think, before the epicness that is Crest. A great read and sequel.",
   "Once again I was swept away with the world Raveling has built for her characters. Kendra has grown up some since the last book and then again displays the trauma she has faced in some not so healthy ways. Along the ride are what remains of her core group of elemental friends. The sexy and roguish Julian is back to stir up trouble and of course, we can't forget the perfect and almost godlike Tristan waiting in the background. So many events take place in this novel that I was not expecting, some truly heart wrenching moments. Clearly the reader is going to be growing up alongside the Sondaleur. And if the excitement and action have amped up to such a level in only two books, I can only imagine what the next installment will bring us. Meantime I'll tide over with Raveling's novella and vignette series. Finally we'll get some insight into Kendra's mysterious love interests. Stay tuned. This is definitely a series you don't want to miss.",
   "2022: I really enjoyed rereading this book. I saw different things in the characters this time around. The last time I read this book I don't think I really saw the struggles Kendra were going thru and how much they affected her personality and character. And I also didn't reflect on how young she is. She is like 17/18. And although Kendra is difficult to like in this book I must say that that problably is the point and that the author did a really good job to convey all those feelings Kendra were feeling thru the pages.  As always: this series does not dissapoint :)  2019: Really liked this book too. Have to say that I liked the first one a bit more. I thought Kendra was really annoying, she really has no self preservation. But at the same time you can really see how her character develops and grows. I'm a bit torn on who I want her to end up with, I'm leaning towards Tristan just because he's  so  kind.",
   "http://katnissbraid.blogspot.it/2013/... oh. c'mon.  i can't read this yet.  but oh baby, i need you.  (why do i act like a stupid fangirl with some books?. crap).  25.08.2012 4.5 Okay, Kendra is a little bit stupid and sometimes annoying (you know? the whole  i'm a sandaleur and my life is nothing but i have to sacrifice myself   i'm guilty for ryder's death, my mother's death, tristan's horrible life, julian's pain, and blah blah blah ) but i have a guilty (but not so much) pleasure for these books.  And the end. THE FREAKIN' END. I need the third book like now. What will happen?. I don't freakin' know, but i need to.  Oh and Emma Raveling every two weeks is posting on her blog a chapter of Whirl by Tristan's POV, and hell i love it so much. ",
   "Kendra has been training to enter the elite chèvrelier. Tristan has been gone to the selkie kimgdom. She has also gotten fair at fending off her trainer Julian who annoyingly growing on her while showing a side of himself she's not comfortable with dealing with. Her friends play a huge role in a lot of her realizations in this installment and although he get a couple of  Ahh  moments there is a lot of fighting, sneaking around and learning that value does not equal worth. The ending will leave you questioning what's to come and sad that it will be a while before the next installment arrives.",
   "Kendra Irisavie is now my favorite heroine in YA. Fantastic characters and world building. And the depth of Kendra's experiences in this book left me pretty moved when I finished. Definitely something I don't experience so often with YA. Great series!",
   "BRILLIANT INSTALLMENT IN THE SERIES! It was darker, angstier than the first book, the plot was even more intricate and exciting. I absolutely loved Julian! Can't wait the next book! The series is a must-read!!!",
   'I liked this one waaaay better than the first one! It was much more action-packed and conflicts were engaging. I liked the characters more in this one, and I loved seeing more unfold over all of them. This one definitely hooked me to the series!',
   'Exciting, beautiful, and sooo much character depth. LOVED it!!',
   'Loved it, happy to see the second book is just as good if not better than the first! Im patiently waiting for the Third book. ',
   'Fantastic! Even better than Whirl. (which was not an easy task) Great story and loved the insight on all the characters!! I couldnt put it down! Cant wait for the next one.',
   'Still loving this series. I just wish she would join team Julian! Although the Prince is a good adversary! ',
   'All I have to say is, dont ever, EVER, read this series.',
   "Six months after the first book, Kendra is as badass as ever and she can now use her Empath virtue on elementals. But this proves to become a disadvantage to her, and she finds herself in doubt on whether she's relying on her magical aspects more now compared to her physical strengths. 1st star - this series keeps getting better and better! It focuses more on Kendra's journey, not just as sondaleur, but also on how she continues to grow and handle the grief that comes with the elemental war going on. I don't mind that the romance side is pushed in the background too. 2nd star - what got me hooked on book two is how Kendra handles her pain, emotionally and physically. I'm a sucker of angst that gets the main character down or doubting herself once in a while, but not too much that she's wallowing in self-pity. I actually relate to the times where Kendra's frustrated with her friends following her into danger 'cuz all she wants is to keep them safe! 3rd star - for the male leads/love interest, Julian and Tristan, though at this point I'm more on TeamJulian even though I already spoiled myself who'll be the  EndGame . These guys are a refreshing variety to the usual YA guys (maybe 'cuz they're portrayed as older than Kendra..), since there's only a subtle dose of jealousy and it also helps that Kendra knows who she likes but can't actually push through with it due to their circumstances. 4th star - Kendra Irisavie. Ondine. Sondaleur. And not good at asking for help. In the first parts of the book though, but she quickly learns from her mistakes and she acknowledges that the people she cares about aren't weak and instead of protecting them, she starts to support them in their own journey. I also like the continuity of how she now handles Empath and what makes her the Sondaleur. Overall, can't wait for more of Kendra's journey (since the war has only just begun..) and am now excited to read the shorts inbetween Book 3! ",
   "This was an ok book , im invested in these characters but i am still finding the plot to be way to similar to the Vampire Academy series. I think that Rose, i mean Kendra lol should have gotten ahold of hersef way faster in the book it was to prolonged within the plot. The i want revenge crap and im totally in denial about my control was very annoying and again way to drawn out.  Love interests??????????  Do i ship Tristen and Kendra ? Not sure , they are obviously supposed to end up together but i think the author wrote these characters with to many obstacles. They live in two different worlds and Kendra would have to give up her soul to be with him in the end. Now im sure because she is champion and will most likly save them all in the end the magic that be will give her love as a reward ..... so overdone  But you know who i do like together !  Julian and Kendra , i know why would you go for Julian when you could have a “Tristen?” Firstly they trust eachother and for Kendra i think thats a hard thing for her to do. Julian obviously cares for her and teases and taunts her but he has a deeper respect and understanding for what she is going through. He understands at a deeper level to me who Kendra is rather than all of Tristen's “belief” in her. Bonus points that Kendra could mate with him and still remain with a soul. I think this Julian and Kendra relationship would be healthier than the overdone novel realtionship ofTristen and Kendra. Im still waiting for this author to find their own story and not just copy the Vampire Academy. Im going to continue this series and am hoping for the best but i doubt i will see much change. ",
   "This was considerably better than the first book. First, I would like to say that I have fallen in love with Julian LeVeq. In the first book, he was very much Adrian whatever-the-hell-his-last-name-was from Vampire Academy. He lounged on a lot of things and was sexy and flirted a lot. But this book? I swooned. I mean, the personality traits still lingered from the first book, but he was a thousand times better. Anyway, Kendra was also considerably new and improved. I still don't like her very much, but I am slowly growing to. Most of my dislike for this book stems from its unoriginality rather than something inherently bad with it. I'm actually really excited to read the next two novels in this series if I can find them. I mean, this series isn't actually that popular, is it?  Anyway, I am actually quite invested in this book for some absurd reason. I know she and Tristan are going to end up together, but I am really curious how they're going to work around the glaring problems. And I'm so glad Ryder is out of the picture. I know that sounds super heartless, but come on, with him, there was like a love square. No one likes love squares. And I'm out.",
   "3.5 stars Kendra was so annoying at times, I wanted to throw my kindle across the room. Everyone has so much patience with her - it's frustrating. She really needs to drop the martyr act - it got tiresome after awhile.  Overall a very strong read - definitely moving on from stereotypes and becoming a unique story.",
   "I did not like the MC. She was full of herself and wouldn't listen to anyone. Dangerous to a fault because she wouldn't listen to the people around her. She just wasn't likeable at all. ",
   "This review was posted on thebookhookup.com and was written in conjunction with guest reviewer Z! The Story: Ana: I really enjoyed this book. I thought the story took some good turns and continued to intrigue me. The bad guys are even more evil in this installment and things are getting personal. The magic is changing and Kendra's abilities are shifting which makes the action more interesting. The romance is still in flux…I have a love/hate relationship with that element because I can't decide which way I want it to go! Z: I've been looking forward to this book since I finished the first, Ana knows this as I kept badgering her for release date info. It didn't disappoint! Kendra's life has been turned upside down, in good ways and bad. Billow is about her struggling to deal with the trauma of those events, while balancing being a teenager, a girl, a powerful empath AND her worlds prophesized saviour. No easy feat. The love story still drives me crazy, because I'm as clueless as they are on how to resolve this. It's in direct opposition to their responsibilities and her own mortality. Ah sweet forbidden romance! I was itching for them to give in to lust. The Characters: Ana: The characters in this book continue to evolve. They are growing and embracing their roles in this world. Kendra has a lot of weight on her shoulders and although she may not always handle things in the best way, she's fiercely motivated to play her part in winning this war that threatens her people. We see a dark side to her in this story that wasn't visible in the first book. Tristan is a true warrior…he's selfless and focused on what is important outside of himself. But, I must say that I'm falling hard for Julian. He is the character that I think grew the most in this book and he never fails to surprise me with his actions. He's a hidden gem! Z: Julian was one of the best characters. He was such a surprise! So many hidden layers. Tristan the strong, protective, gorgeous Selkie Prince still has my heart. Always trying to do the right thing, but you can tell he's dying to cross the line. Kendra is far from perfect, but she's a real fighter and stands up for what she believes in. She's also fiercely protective, which frustrates those close to her who want to stand by her side and help. As they work their way through these struggles you get a great insight into the strengths and weakness in all of them. We see their vulnerabilities while they fight their personal demons as well as the real ones. I feel like I bonded with them. Yeah, we totally bonded. Likes: Ana: Julian! His character is really making this story very interesting for me and I hope we see lots of him in book 3! I also like the fact that Kendra's dark side was explored a bit in this book…I like that she's a bit of a broken hero. I loved Ian as well. He's a great new character! Z: Gotta agree! Julian was a big like. I can't even call what's going to happen in book 3 now. I love all the fight training scenes. The anticipation when Tristan joined in. Julian's banter. Dislikes: Ana: There's not much to dislike here. As a matter of fact, I can only think of one thing. I don't want to spoil anything but I didn't like what happened to one of the female characters towards the end of the book. I can understand the reason for it…but it doesn't mean I have to like it! Z: That was a shocker. I was reading the kindle version, but mentally I threw the book across the room, wailing. How it compares to book 1: Ana: Unlike many second books, I thought this one was just as good as the first and is a great lead-in to the 3rd installment. The story took some turns and we learned more about the characters which is quite unique in middle books! Z: This book was all about humanizing the characters for me. About life, loss, limitations, and acceptance. Lessons we all eventually learn, and an important step for these characters. A fitting second book. Oh, and we finally get a glimpse at the Shadow! Creepy. Overall thoughts: Ana: Good book…good series! I must admit that I still struggle with all the terminology that's unique to this book but the definitions at the back are wonderful! I like that it's different than some of the other books I've been reading lately and I'm fully invested in these characters. I want more Julian…and more Tristan…and the next book!! Z: This series should totally be more popular. Once you get your head around the terminology, it's easy to like. I pretty much read it in a day and wanted more. Those are my favourite kinds of books. The thing I'm most looking forward to within the next two books is visiting Tristans turf, the Selkie Kingdom! So, the bottom line is that you should read this series, it's great!!",
   "This review was posted on thebookhookup.com and was written in conjunction with guest reviewer Z! The Story: Ana: I really enjoyed this book. I thought the story took some good turns and continued to intrigue me. The bad guys are even more evil in this installment and things are getting personal. The magic is changing and Kendra's abilities are shifting which makes the action more interesting. The romance is still in flux…I have a love/hate relationship with that element because I can't decide which way I want it to go! Z: I've been looking forward to this book since I finished the first, Ana knows this as I kept badgering her for release date info. It didn't disappoint! Kendra's life has been turned upside down, in good ways and bad. Billow is about her struggling to deal with the trauma of those events, while balancing being a teenager, a girl, a powerful empath AND her worlds prophesized saviour. No easy feat. The love story still drives me crazy, because I'm as clueless as they are on how to resolve this. It's in direct opposition to their responsibilities and her own mortality. Ah sweet forbidden romance! I was itching for them to give in to lust. The Characters: Ana: The characters in this book continue to evolve. They are growing and embracing their roles in this world. Kendra has a lot of weight on her shoulders and although she may not always handle things in the best way, she's fiercely motivated to play her part in winning this war that threatens her people. We see a dark side to her in this story that wasn't visible in the first book. Tristan is a true warrior…he's selfless and focused on what is important outside of himself. But, I must say that I'm falling hard for Julian. He is the character that I think grew the most in this book and he never fails to surprise me with his actions. He's a hidden gem! Z: Julian was one of the best characters. He was such a surprise! So many hidden layers. Tristan the strong, protective, gorgeous Selkie Prince still has my heart. Always trying to do the right thing, but you can tell he's dying to cross the line. Kendra is far from perfect, but she's a real fighter and stands up for what she believes in. She's also fiercely protective, which frustrates those close to her who want to stand by her side and help. As they work their way through these struggles you get a great insight into the strengths and weakness in all of them. We see their vulnerabilities while they fight their personal demons as well as the real ones. I feel like I bonded with them. Yeah, we totally bonded. Likes: Ana: Julian! His character is really making this story very interesting for me and I hope we see lots of him in book 3! I also like the fact that Kendra's dark side was explored a bit in this book…I like that she's a bit of a broken hero. I loved Ian as well. He's a great new character! Z: Gotta agree! Julian was a big like. I can't even call what's going to happen in book 3 now. I love all the fight training scenes. The anticipation when Tristan joined in. Julian's banter. Dislikes: Ana: There's not much to dislike here. As a matter of fact, I can only think of one thing. I don't want to spoil anything but I didn't like what happened to one of the female characters towards the end of the book. I can understand the reason for it…but it doesn't mean I have to like it! Z: That was a shocker. I was reading the kindle version, but mentally I threw the book across the room, wailing. How it compares to book 1: Ana: Unlike many second books, I thought this one was just as good as the first and is a great lead-in to the 3rd installment. The story took some turns and we learned more about the characters which is quite unique in middle books! Z: This book was all about humanizing the characters for me. About life, loss, limitations, and acceptance. Lessons we all eventually learn, and an important step for these characters. A fitting second book. Oh, and we finally get a glimpse at the Shadow! Creepy. Overall thoughts: Ana: Good book…good series! I must admit that I still struggle with all the terminology that's unique to this book but the definitions at the back are wonderful! I like that it's different than some of the other books I've been reading lately and I'm fully invested in these characters. I want more Julian…and more Tristan…and the next book!! Z: This series should totally be more popular. Once you get your head around the terminology, it's easy to like. I pretty much read it in a day and wanted more. Those are my favourite kinds of books. The thing I'm most looking forward to within the next two books is visiting Tristans turf, the Selkie Kingdom! So, the bottom line is that you should read this series, it's great!!"],
  '_version_': 1748767598033502208},
 {'id': '31685',
  'author': ['Stephani Hecht'],
  'book_format': 'Ebook',
  'description': "Russell has always liked his men the same way he likes his sex: fast, hard, and without any emotional attachments. As leader of not only a pack of rogue Wolf shifters but also of almost every illegal enterprise in the shifter world, Russell knows he's not the type to ever find a mate and settle down. Then Dalton slips into his life, turning it upside down. Not only is Dalton a Lynx shifter, he's also sweet and innocent: everything that Russell never liked in a man...or so he thought.,But Dalton has a tragic past, which left him scarred inside and out, without a family... and Dalton discovers that Russell may have had something to do with that tragedy just as Russell thinks he's finally going to be able to claim his mate. Will Dalton be able to forgive Russell, or will their love be doomed to end before it even begins?",
  'genre': ['Romance',
   'M M Romance',
   'Paranormal',
   'Shapeshifters',
   'Fantasy',
   'Adult Fiction',
   'Erotica',
   'Paranormal Romance',
   'LGBT',
   'Gay',
   'M M Paranormal',
   'M M Shapeshifters',
   'Contemporary'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1420769461l/12976602.jpg',
  'isbn': '1771110252',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12976602-russell-s-reversal',
  'page_count': '124',
  'rating': 3.8,
  'review_count': 47,
  'title': "Russell's Reversal",
  'rating_count': 848,
  'sensitivity': ['war',
   'murder',
   'violence',
   'slavery',
   'snakes',
   'blood',
   'homophobia'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['boring',
   'period',
   'top',
   'cute',
   'predictable',
   'new',
   'rich',
   'recommend',
   'spoiled',
   'hate',
   'poor',
   'compelling',
   'powerful',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'extra',
   'funny',
   'wonderful',
   'adorable',
   'regret',
   'unrealistic',
   'shocked',
   'worst',
   'comfort',
   'interesting',
   'rushed',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'surprise',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'terrible',
   'different',
   'heart',
   'invested',
   'twist',
   'special',
   'mafia',
   'damaged',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'sweet',
   'common',
   'surprised',
   'painful',
   'sucker',
   'tired',
   'masterpiece',
   'beautiful',
   'unusual',
   'entertaining',
   'sexy',
   'unexpected',
   'forward',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["Wolf Shifter, Russell & Lynx shifter, Dalton The story of Russell and Dalton that started in 'Hey, There's Fur in My Wedding Cake'.  Russel is a bad bad wolf. He has many illegal activities, i.e. he is your usual Mafia guy. He was kicked out from Chris' Pack for being gay and he sworn that he would never come back. But he went back for Chris' wedding, where he met Dalton. Dalton was a slave with Trevor, when Shane saved him. And he is very young, naive and cute. A relationship with a large age difference. Not one of my favourites in the series.",
   "After reading the prologue  Hey, There's Fur in My Wedding Cake  a couple of months ago, I was really looking forward to this book. Bad boy, rogue wolf who is Alpha of his outlaw pack, what's not to love? I have to tell you that while I did enjoy this book as a whole, the prologue was the best part. The books have always been formulaic but have still managed to work for me but this one just felt so shallow compared to what could have been done with the story. So many things were just hinted at (like Russell getting out of illegal activities) and would have added so much to the story if we could have actually experienced them.",
   "1.5 rounded up and that's being generous. This was so bad on so many levels I can't even review it: the age difference, Russell's accomplishments at his young age, the almost nonexistent climax and resolution, the lack of chemistry, the tell tell tell, everything except I really like the character of Dalton. He was created in another book though. The conflict and resolution lasted like a page. This felt like a freebie type of story and the prologue, which had been produced as a freebie, was better than the rest. Come on, Stephani, you can do better. BTW, not wearing underwear isn't sexy, it's painful (unless the person is completely shaven and/or there's no zipper) and unsanitary (unless the person only wears their pants once between washings). It's even gross when the person is wearing button down jeans because the pubic hair can come through if it's long enough. I just don't get why people think it's hot. I wince every time it's mentioned.",
   "This formulaic story pales compared to the previous book (Thomas and Chance). I think a couple of issues are just solved too quickly or are not explored more thoroughly. Most especially regarding Russell's  involvement  on the murder of Dalton's family as well as how they work on that. There's practically no real confrontation or heart to heart talk. It's there then poof all is forgiven. Russel's regret of his past is also not explored, I think there is a good plot there, some sort a glimpse of his past. Oh, and Dalton is also not as endearing for me personally, compared to Chance, for example. PS: What's with all the talks of Ke$ha in so many of these stories?!?",
   "2.5 Stars Ugh. Too much sap, not enough substance. I liked Dalton when I first met him in  Shane's Fury . But then he went from a sweet kid to a bratty twink with a borderline chick-with-a-dick disorder. Blech. Russell was your stereotypical wolf shifter and mafioso bad-ass. BTW, I don't get how Russell just upped and  went legit  one day. I mean, I've heard of it happening but it's usually called  witness protection.  In any event, this one was really short and really sappy. Bottom-line: not a favorite.",
   "I'm so glad we get to see more of Russell in this book, and especially Dalton... I mean I loved Dalton from the first time he asked Shane for some chocolate milk all the while knowing he was safe since Trevor promised him. He's ready for some wolf action, and Russell has grown a conscience.  Real Quick: Dalton is the lynx shifter that was a slave with Trevor, Shane's mate, he's been living with the two since he joined the coalition and is 19. Russell is Chris (wolf Alpha)'s brother and was kicked out the pack a long time ago for being gay. He was also beaten, and swore that he would become more successful then his old Alpha. He did this by unsavory means. He's a crook, a sort of mob boss, and has been a part of bad things in the past, however he saved Mitchell's brother from slaves and fell in love with Dalton at Chris and Cassie's wedding. Meanwhile as we all know the Ravens are becoming desperate to win the war. Ok now on to the book. I really really liked that there was some blood and guts and casualties. The Ravens are now attacking humans because they know the coalition will try to save them. Russell is really trying to get 'clean' so to speak because something in Dalton's eyes make him want to be a better man, but he's 30 (yes 30) and has a lot of bad baggage with him. There is a lot that goes on in this book, including finding the lynx female that Dalton was forced to procreate with but I won't say any more and I'll save it for the book. The only thing that felt a little odd was that Dalton was a very very very young 19. I know his family lived in seclusion, but some of the things he says reminds me of a 12 year old girl. Having said that it certainly did not detract from the story, just made me want him to grow up a bit (especially when you find out what happens at the end!).  I'm also super happy the price on Amazon is $3.99 and not $4.99 while a dollar may not seem like that much, Hecht also added the freebie Hey There's Fur in my Wedding Cake where the two first meet. If you love Hecht's shifter books like I do then you'll love this one, Riley, Chance, Tobias, Shane, Trevor... they all get a roll, we also get to see Gage and his future mate...AH! I can't wait. So read up, enjoy the lower price and let's hope for many more shifter books in the future... Maybe some more Shane/Andrew/Owen?? Another Christmas special?? : - ) Enjoy!",
   "Seriously? I can't believe I'm already at book fourteen in the 'Lost Shifters' series. But, let me tell you, when it comes to bad boys, Russell is the epitome, and Dalton is so not. I have a soft spot for this series and the characters and having met Dalton in the previous book, I'll just admit that he gave me the warm fuzzies from the get-go. He's sweet, shy, beautiful, mischievous, loyal, loving, a sarcastic brat, and he doesn't take crap from anyone. So now all I needed to do was get a handle on Russell since the only thing I knew about him was he was kicked out of his wolf pack for being gay and he was a criminal. Huh. Interesting pairing, as many of this author's have been. Dalton lives with Shane and Trevor, who make it very obvious they don't want Russell anywhere near their charge. Since Shane is the coalitions top assassin that should have scared him off, but Russell isn't afraid of much and he wants to get to know Dalton. What shocks Russell is how Dalton seems convinced that there's good in Russell and that regardless of how he makes his living, Dalton still wants to spend time with him. When the Ravens change the playing field by killing humans and showing themselves as shifters, the gloves come off between all shifters and the government, leaving Russell and his pack to ally with the coalition. Russell and Dalton as mates are so adorable. Russell went legit for his mate and Dalton was right that there's plenty of goodness inside Russell. Dalton's belief in Russell gets tested, but they come through it with flying colors. Plus, there's a little bonus in the ending that was super sweet. Now I'm sad again because I finished another installment, but happy, too, because I can move on to the next book. NOTE: This book was provided by the publisher for the purpose of a review on  Rainbow Book Reviews",
   "I'm so disappointed in this book. I was expecting so much more because Dalton and Russel stood out so much in other books that it left me feeling down. I felt it was rushed, especially the ending... I know Ms. Hecht has been going through a lot, and I empathize with her and I hope things are getting better... Hopefully the next installment will pick up again.",
   "4.5 You know, I've re-read this entire series several times, but now I'm doing so as it's released in its second edition. I have to say that this time around there weren't any awful, editing problems! There was nothing to distract me from Ms. Hecht's story. I have to admit that I love Dalton. I loved him in his previous appearances in this series.",
   "Stephanie Hecht is one of my favorite authors. I enjoy her writing and the Lost Shifter series.  M/M Paranormal Romance stories at its best. Russell's Reversal is book 14 in this series and I would say read all 14 of the books.",
   "This review is for all of the Lost Shifters, Wayne County Wolves, and Assassin's Loyalty books since they are all interconnected and I read them back-to-back pretty much nonstop over a 10 day period. If I have anything to say about a particular book I'll add it under this bulk review. First, I'd like to mention these are more like novellas than books but they have the same underlying theme and pretty much continue where the last left off but with a different couple.  Everything starts out with the Lost Shifters. To summarize there was a war between the feline shifters and the raven shifters. 20 years or so before the first book there was an all out slaughter in which hundreds of feline homes were attacked and burned down all of the occupants believed to be killed. Turns out that the babies and toddlers that were assumed lost were not. They were hidden within the human foster care system for the most part. I won't say how because that'd be a big spoiler. In addition to foster care some kids were sold into slavery and that's where the whole assassin thing comes in. A couple of the main characters marry into the wolf pack so that's where those books come in as well.  Pros: Since the books are so short there are no long drawn out boring details or general angst. There's usually only one sex scene although it's normally long as hell. Which makes the fact some people shelved these as erotica confusing. I liked the world building and even though there were times I think a little more info might have been nice it never detracted from the story or left me confused. Most of the relationships were a sort of love at first sight thing. Or maybe lust or obsession? Despite this the shifters all seem adamant that's not a thing that happens. There wasn't one character I didn't like. My favorite character was Shane and he must have been the author's as well since he got a few extra books and a side series Shane's Chronicles. There's no big end battle or anything but the last book Baily's 9th Life does pretty much tie things up nicely. I think if I'd been reading the series when they were released I'd be a bit miffed because that book didn't come out until a few years later if you weren't reading the assassins books. Also, these books all have some really funny moments and/or dialog.  Cons: The last several books didn't appear to have been edited at all. If if wasn't for the fact that I was so invested in the overall story arc I would have quit reading them. Things like sent instead of scent and too instead of to they instead of them and random wrong words completely. There were also a couple of times that things were said/thought almost verbatim in different parts of a book as if the author forgot she'd already put that info in there already. At the start of the series, they state that all feline shifters are bisexual but at some point the author must have forgotten that detail because suddenly there are gay shifters and homophobia and all this hate. Which brings me to my next con, the themes of the different books started to repeat. Suddenly all these shifters had been thrown out of their previous pack or coalition or human home for being gay. And throughout this huge series of books there was only one straight couple. Like not even a straight friend or whatever. Even the females were all lesbians. It was just kinda unrealistic especially with the whole gay hate thing going on. Usually there's at least a few couples or friends or something on the periphery in gay romances especially in a world this huge. Which brings me to my final con, I had a hard time remembering who was who and what there story was after awhile especially if they weren't mentioned much in previous books. I wish there had been some sort of glossary to review.  Despite the cons, I would still recommend these books. All-in-all I really enjoyed them and was dreading the end although the editing in the last few books really had me also looking forward to the end if I'm being honest. ",
   "[Since I read Lost Shifters 15 before this one I didn't knew how old Tobias was but now that I see that he is actually 25 I think the character is crap. What is it with Hecht that she makes grown man behave like spoiled pre-teen boys? Is she in love with the brat-stereotype so much? She already turned Riley and Noah into brats without any sense and now she is introducing even more? The dialogues with Mitchell are so flat and unrealistic. I nearly expected Russel to screw Dalton right there, in front of everybody, without anybody saying a word. Furthermore Mrs. Hecht seriously needs to take notes of her background: If the scent of a wolf is so strong, why did Carson in an earlier book state that wolves cannot leave their scents on felines? Shouldn't everybody have been able to smell Dean on Mitchell then? And Russel's statement that Dalton is  his  only proves that Mrs. Hecht is one of the women who are condition to find this sort of possessive behavior attractive. Russel is the quintessence of this weird and totally fictitious male who is strong, angry, violent, impetuous, controlling but also so caring and just needs a bit of tweaking to be just right. The only difference is that this time it's a guy, who definitely fills the role of the girl here, who is the cause for this. Russel's fury is portrayed as something good because it comes out of  love.   And Mrs. Hecht should do the math: 1) She stated in an earlier book that shifters are ten times stronger than humans, not only would that mean that shifters couldn't possibly have sex with humans without hurting them, humans would have very high casualties if they go against shifters (I totally forgot that fact when I read book 15 and she mentioned the human hunters). Or is there suddenly some special shifter weakness she never mentioned before? How would Russel then ever be able to  squash his smaller lover?  Are shifters also ten times heavier now? Even if Russel is bigger and heavier than Dalton, Dalton would still be able to lift him with ease. 2) If so many shifters were killed during the 60s and the felines and hawks were nearly exterminated during the 80s by the mass raven attack, how many of them are still there? Respectively how many where there before? In addition you would think that such a severe attack by humans would have been mentioned sooner in the series, but nothing whatsoever which makes me think that she just made it up as she got along with it. That  explanation  of Dalton why he was kept alive and the rest of the family killed because he wasn't able to fight is a rather weak one. If the snakes wanted to raise their own food (a rather ridiculous concept since the shifters don't mature faster than humans) and as Hecht stated in earlier books prefer bigger prey they would have left way more alive instead of just Dalton. The whole terrible background for him rather seems to be there for making readers sympathetic to Dalton, but that could have been done in a better way. And everything Russel did was rooted in the fact that he was kicked out of his pack for being gay and he wanted to show that he could do better without them? Yeah, that is one good reason to become a rich criminal. And where are all these enemies he talks about? There are suspiciously absent in this book. So now we have it that Russel let his fangs grow when Dalton submitted to him during sex and he bit him in the neck (obviously to claim him) and the blood was sweet. Hm, we had three cases of shifters who bit their mates for the claiming who could grow fangs and none did that. Seriously Mrs. Hecht is no longer trying; this is just lame old werewolf romance now. Well that and the old portraying of violence as romantic and sexy. And the Ravens are becoming desperate all off a sudden? These are the dangerous shifters feared by everybody? Yeah right, that is believable. And speaking about believability, the author mentioned ancient shifter civilizations. She did something similar in an earlier book when she talked about the different customs of the different breeds, let Collin state that years ago public sex acts were common in rituals and everyday live among the Hawks and some things of the Ravens way of life but apart from that so far there was absolutely nothing, not even the tiniest hints that these customs are still alive. These shifters have an American human culture and nothing more. And even an idiot like Shane should have noticed that his behavior (foremost his lack of cleaning himself of blood) puts him even more at odds with the rest of the coalition. He doesn't even seem to try to change that, instead others must just accept him how he is and if they don't than they of course are ignorant and intolerant.  Which brings me to my next subject: Shane calling the Hawks jerks. Yeah better be a jerk than a sociopath, and damn she plays that part of him down. And these self-help CDs of Riley are the attempt to make the Hawks more tolerant that Hecht talked about? I guess this is there to make Riley more than just a brat with a pretty face. Way to go Mrs. Hecht. Yeah of course, the Hawks are just jerks, that most of them got slaughtered not only 30 years back has of course nothing to do with their behavior. Why should they trust anybody who is not a Hawk? Does Hecht really think that these few years are making everything well again? From a Hawk point of view the current socialization with the felines might just be the harbinger of Doom. But it looks like Mrs. Hecht is not capable of thinking in that direction. And Dalton is soooo sweet and understanding and of course he would have taken Russel even if Russel would be poor. Yeah right, easy to say when you live in a huge mansion and practically married into the upper class. Maybe it would be believable if Dalton had to give something up, but there was nothing. That this George would make trouble was obvious from the start. And Dalton was sooo shocked about the little revelation about his sugar-daddy, what a kid. And that is someone to be admired? Maybe it wouldn't seem so lame if Hecht had given him some actual flaws and had not portrayed him as such a forgive-it-all. But interestingly he could not forgive George, because George was an asshole. It would be nice if Mrs. Hecht gave her characters a bit more... element of surprise. After all Dalton and Russel should thank George for bringing it up since according to the book it only made them stronger. Guess this way both of their hands stay clean. The mother of the babies is dead and the babies are both boys. That she is dead is not only convenient for Russel and Dalton, since this way they don't have to deal with some sort of menage a troi, but this fact together with the notorious absence of women in the series as well as the fact that except for Cassie (who was portrayed as unusual) none was ever shown in any position that does not fit US-American expectations of proper female behavior. And Dalton will probably very overprotective of the babies, the whole story stinks of worst fairy tale anyway.   (hide spoiler) ]",
   "Criminal Love When think you'll never find a mate and be happy look at Russell. Then big surprise his mate's a papa of two cute little baby boy's. Papa was one stunned daddy he now has a family.",
   'Love the series You have a wonderful story of criminal that do almost anything for his mate. Love all the twist and turn Highly recommend this book and series',
   "Russell's Reversal (Lost Shifter Book 14) This was another awesome book in this series and I will be reading the next one soon and I can't wait....",
   'Super excited to find this series in Kindle Unlimited! Loved this story!',
   "This was not one of my favorite books of the series. Again, I feel like Ms. Hecht is going back to the same recipe. Sure, if a recipe is good, you may want to make it quite often, but you can't eat it for every meal no matter how much you like it. In this book we learn more about Dalton, Shane and Trevor's ward. I think the fact that in Trevor's book, Dalton was so childish, it makes it hard to work him into a romantic relationship. I mean come on, the last time I saw him he was swinging his feet and making slurpy noises through a straw while drinking milk. MILK. I like my shifters to be men, not boys. I do like Dalton - as Shane and Trevor's son/younger brother/ward. But as an MC he just do anything for me. He's just too sticky sweet for me.  It was also weird the way Russell, the bad ass rogue Wolf Alpha, admits that he usually likes his men to be men and can't figure out his attraction to the boyish Dalton. Who knows? If he can't figure it out, I certainly won't even try. I like it when badass shifters link up with other badass shifters - like Andrew and Vapor. So okay - Dalton and Russell go on some cutesy date where Russell buys him hot chocolate and falls in love. Meh. She hits the same tired points. Oh how can this Shifter ever love me when I'm so  XXX  (insert slutty, emotionless, damaged, crooked, young...blah blah). The end of the story tried to add a little twist, but that was a little predictable after we discovered in Shane's book why Dalton was being held prisoner. So we knew that was coming. So this book didn't hold anything new to me. We did meet a new shifter, Tobias, who is Russell's younger brother and runt of his litter. But honestly? Tobias was kind of a pussy. Where have all the badass shifters gone? Oh where, oh where can they be?",
   "[Exposure to humankind? That can only lead to a lot of what we've seen in every other shifter series, i.e. evil scientists and hunters. Given the tentative cooperation of the government/military and the general tone whenever they appear, they might turn on the shifters as well.  (hide spoiler) ]",
   'Full Review:  http://thetbrpile.weebly.com/1/post/2... I really enjoy this series, and this installment does not disappoint. Although you expect an happily-ever-after ending. I also find the continuing war between the shifter species interesting and look forward to continuing to see how it turns out. My only complaint is that it could have been fleshed out better. If the story was longer the entire plot would have come together more cohesively. ',
   "Book 14 is Russell's story - he was cast out from his pack for being gay. He built his own (criminal) pack from rogue shifters and is now powerful and wealthy. He meets Dalton, a sweet, innocent Lynx shifter and they fall for each other. Dalton is determined that Russell does have some good in him although the other felines are less convinced - including Shane and Trevor (Dalton's guardians). This was a very sweet story with some conflict. The end is a little rushed but it still left me smiling.",
   "I liked it but I think I expected a bit more. Dalton was adorbs although sometimes he came off much younger than he actually is (it didn't help that he was treated like a kid by certain people). I wished we'd gotten more background on Russell and why he's such a  big bad  b/c honestly...in all the previous books CHRIS is the one who comes off like a total tool, untrustworthy and a user/loser. Russell was definitely morally grey but he never tried to out and out manipulate and betray the coalition like Chris. Just saying lol.",
   "Stephani Hecht is a terrible writer. I don't feel like pulling any punches here, because to do otherwise would be a disservice to my fellow readers. These books are awful, but have their own compelling pull. I wanted to carry on to see what happened next, even though the writing was making me insane, the characters were all the same, and the sex was becoming incredibly redundant. It wasn't until I got to the third book based on Shane (seriously, again?), that I finally hit a wall and couldn't read any more. It was (sorta) fun while it lasted.",
   "2.5 I was expecting more. This looked too easy, no bumps in the road. Our bad guy is way too good. We don't see no bad side and how they overcome that. An attempt with the gun selling looked poor - easily put behind. I was actually surprised than I saw that I am already 70% in the book. Since I felt like it was just a beginning, everything is still ahead, since nothing really happened. The ending was abrupt.",
   'This was a cute addition to the series. I love how Russell changed his life for Dalton. He fell hard and fast for him as did Dalton for Russell.  The writing and plot is pretty standard for the series. I know other think it is not a great read but I really enjoy it. This makes a nice comfort read and the ending...well that just tops it all:)',
   "I'm a sucker for the redeemed bad guy and in this one Russell, mafioso boss of a sort, has decided to go straight in order to win innocent Dalton. The who sub-story of the Raven's changing their plan and attacking humans and letting it be revealed that they are shifters is adding a new angle to the over-arching story-line. I can't wait until Tobias' story comes up. ",
   "I don't expect a masterpiece when reading a book in this series, but it's usually pleasant escapism. This one though gets a lower than usual rating because of the editing, especially in the first part of the book. Otherwise it's the usual formula, and there is nothing unexpected going on here, though there are some plot holes I hope will be addressed in future books. ",
   "This entertaining continuation in the  Lost Shifters  is one of my favorites of the series so far. Turns out Russell isn't really as bad as even he thought and Dalton is a cutie. I liked them as a couple very much. I'm looking forward to seeing how the change in the Ravens plays out.",
   "I really enjoyed this story. Dalton and Russell were pulling as character and as mates. The plot was rather sweet and easy, but well written and comical. I liked it.  I really hope, there will be a story about Colby, too. I'm looking forward for it. ",
   "Russell and Dalton. Kind of hoping for more from these two. Maybe more background on Russell? I wanted to hear about all of the stuff he did in the past. Again, isn't Dalton too old to have guardians? I don't get it. ",
   'Good paranormal m/m romance about Russell, a Wolf shifter and crime lord, who decides to clean up his act because of his feelings for Lynx shifter Dalton.'],
  '_version_': 1748767598046085120},
 {'id': '31725',
  'author': ['Glen Duncan'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "When I change I change fast. The moon drags the whatever-it-is up from the earth and it goes through me with crazy wriggling impatience . . . I'm twisted, torn, churned, throttled—then rushed through a blind chicane into ludicrous power . . . A heel settles. A last canine hurries through. A shoulder blade pops. The woman is a werewolf., , The woman is Talulla Demetriou. , She's grieving for her werewolf lover, Jake, whose violent death has left her alone with her own sublime monstrousness. On the run, pursued by the hunters of WOCOP (World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena), she must find a place to give birth to Jake's child in secret. , The birth, under a full moon at a remote Alaska lodge, leaves Talulla ravaged, but with her infant son in her arms she believes the worst is over—until the windows crash in, and she discovers that the worst has only just begun . . ., What follows throws Talulla into a race against time to save both herself and her child as she faces down the new, psychotic leader of WOCOP, a cabal of blood-drinking religious fanatics, and (rumor has it) the oldest living vampire., Harnessing the same audacious imagination and dark humor, the same depths of horror and sympathy, the same full-tilt narrative energy with which he crafted his acclaimed novel ,The Last Werewolf, ,Glen Duncan now gives us a heroine like no other, the definitive twenty-first-century female of the species.",
  'genre': ['Horror',
   'Fantasy',
   'Fiction',
   'Shapeshifters',
   'Werewolves',
   'Paranormal',
   'Urban Fantasy',
   'Vampires',
   'Supernatural',
   'Science Fiction Fantasy',
   'Audiobook'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1339696875l/12981174.jpg',
  'isbn': '307595099',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12981174-talulla-rising',
  'page_count': '368',
  'rating': 3.78,
  'review_count': 621,
  'title': 'Talulla Rising',
  'rating_count': 4121,
  'sensitivity': ['grief',
   'rape',
   'cancer',
   'murder',
   'violence',
   'gore',
   'occult',
   'torture',
   'death',
   'abuse',
   'depression',
   'pregnancy',
   'blood',
   'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'dying',
   'flawed',
   'predictable',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'incredible',
   'entertained',
   'rushed',
   'missing',
   'fun',
   'twist',
   'edgy',
   'bland',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'lack',
   'ludicrous',
   'torture',
   'magnificent',
   'spoilers',
   'domestic',
   'propaganda',
   'captured',
   'original',
   'phenomenal',
   'capture',
   'entertaining',
   'suffer',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'popular',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'quirky',
   'mid',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'worse',
   'waste',
   'delivered',
   'best',
   'acclaimed',
   'dreaming',
   'special',
   'lacked',
   'disturbing',
   'witty',
   'familiar',
   'glee',
   'cliches',
   'mess',
   'virgin',
   'hated',
   'twisted',
   'top',
   'hilarious',
   'brutal',
   'hate',
   'enjoyable',
   'worst',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'great',
   'heart',
   'spite',
   'hype',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'iffy',
   'beautiful',
   'annoying',
   'absorbing',
   'sexy',
   'light',
   'fierce',
   'widow',
   'struggle',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'spoiled',
   'flaw',
   'poor',
   'relate',
   'beloved',
   'funny',
   'wonderful',
   'shocking',
   'comfort',
   'interesting',
   'surprising',
   'surprise',
   'different',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'soulmates',
   'painful',
   'cringe',
   'contemporary',
   'forward',
   'unpleasant'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': ["”Life's generally artless ... but it does get these occasional hard-ons for plot. It connects things, nefariously, behind your back, and before you know it you're in the final act of a lousy movie.”     Talulla is eight months pregnant, on the run from an organization called World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena (WOCOP), and trying to stay under the radar of a nest of vampires. Yes, vampires, which would be weird enough, but what makes things even weirder is: Talulla is something special, something rather wild. ”Meanwhile, the freak biology show. My lungs expand, threaten to burst against the ribs--but never do. My spine elongates in three, four, five spasms and the claws come all at once, like speeded-up film of shoots sprouting. I'm twisted, torn, churned, throttled--then rushed through a blind chicane into ludicrous power. Muscular and skeletal wrongness at an elusive stroke put right. A heel settles. A last canine hurries through. A shoulder blade pops.  The woman is a werewolf. And she is starving.” She is also a pregnant werewolf, something that wasn't supposed to be possible. WOCOP wants to examine her and her offspring, and not in the take a few test tubes of blood variety of health check up sort of way. The vampires, strangely, have been infected with their own religious cult ideas and want her child for a sacrifice to their god. To top it all off Jake, who at one time thought he was the last werewolf, has gotten himself killed just when she needs him the most. The bastard got her pregnant and absconded permanently. (Actually, I'm a little pissed off at Glen Duncan, too, for killing Jake off in book one. He was damn cool. This might be a good time to mention that you REALLY should read book one before reading book two.) Jake left behind some journals chronicling his four hundred years of knocking around the planet which Talulla is delving into anytime she needs to hear Jake's voice in her head. His more philosophical musings, while somewhat annoying to ponder, were also proving to be an endearing life raft.  ”Did you ever have a dream you were dreaming? You know. In your dream ... you're having a dream. Dreams are the nearest parallel universe. Like the universe next door. So when you dream, you're really entering the universe next door. But if you dream you're dreaming, that's the universe NEXT to the universe next door …” Talulla goes to Alaska to disappear as best she can, to safely give birth. It doesn't work. The moment that her son Lorcan is born, the vampires attack. In her weakened state, Talulla can not even go all wolfie to protect her son. This forces her to make uncertain alliances with uncertain agendas as she works to get her son back. She also has to deal with her own conflicting emotions about how she really feels about her son and how much should she sacrifice to save him. Is he worth dying for? Her wolf side and her compromised human side contend for control of her actions which produces confusion when she needs clarity.  ”You kill for two reasons. First, because it's kill or die. Second, because it feels good. In the human court of appeals the first reason buys you theoretical mitigation. The second buys you a silver bullet.” As Glen Duncan weaves in Jake's writings and Talulla's own reflections, I really did start to see them as more than just someone who goes all fur and claws once a month. Most of the time they are those other persons, influenced by the virus floating in their bloodstream, but not necessarily dominated by it. The book is frankly a quote machine, with lots of great thoughts and observations about being human and about being something else. The book is also humorous, sometimes unexpectedly so. I enjoy Duncan's free flowing writing style. He is fairly irreverent; everything is on the table from anal sex to the existence of god. He even makes an Updike reference, talk about endearing himself to me.  ”Updike would have rhapsodised about her oily skin and long fingers and freckled boobs.”     Glen Duncan looking WOLFIE. The reason I knocked it down a star is because of the amount of time Talulla spends being tortured. The moment she escapes she is captured by someone else. Each group brings its own creative way to inflict pain on the werewolf. They lob off hands and breasts, and remove organs just to watch them grow back. I'm always amazed at the amount of thought that has been put into how to torment and abuse another human being. Of course with Talulla's regenerative powers, even more heinous things can be devised. As I mentioned earlier in the review, do read  The Last Werewolf  first because you really must meet Jake before you get to know Talulla.  I did write a review of The Last Werewolf, but it was an early effort so forgive the lack of pertinent details. :-)  The Last Werewolf Review If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit  http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at:  https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten",
   "Talulla Demetriou, you have been a Very... Bad... Girl I felt like I was literally on a roller coaster while reading this book. I have to admit that did I have my doubts before reading. Hearing from Jakes POV in the first book was fun and interesting, so I felt iffy with this one because Duncan decided to switch up to Talulla's POV. But I ended up liking Talulla's voice even more than Jake's. I felt that Talulla brought something to this book, something that first book kind of lacked, and that is emotion. Also story had more action in it (of course, more sex), and it was really hard putting this book down. If days had more hours, and I had more free time, I think I would've read it in one sitting.  In conclusion, amazing sequel (in some parts even better than the first one), and I can't wait to see how will Dankan wrap the story up in the last book.",
   "Part of the appeal of paranormal fiction lies in watching an author navigate the protocols. How much of a world does he plan to build? How will he balance his human/inhuman dynamics? Will there be depth and complication enough to curry fascination? Can he sell heroism in a transformed realm? Rarest to encounter, and priceless when found: Beneath all the imaginative sleight-of-hand, will he be making a point here? Does he have something (beyond a wild tale) that he's determined to impart? Talulla Rising  is the second leg of Glen Duncan's journey through a modern-day underworld of werewolves and vampires. His initial offering,  The Last Werewolf , set the bar pretty high. This was seriously intelligent work delivered over in a darkly carnal, Hell's Angel style. His two hundred year old lupine, Jake Marlowe, bled quarts of existential fatigue as he weighed his willingness to finally die at the hands of an organization whose sole aim was to exterminate his kind. Now we pick up with Jake's lover, Talulla, barricaded in an Alaskan cabin as she readies herself to give birth. She is similarly endangered - sought by both the exterminators and a splintered sect of vampires who believe her blood holds the secret to overcoming their vulnerability to the sun. I was hesitant to follow along, and for a fairly pedestrian reason. A story told from this psychological depth does not generally benefit from a change in gender. To go from what is essentially a Renaissance man's mid-life crisis to the hormonal overload of a birthing mother is a certified alpha/omega shift in internal narration. Death to Life. Seed to seeded. Collapsing yang to replicating yin - and, really, as astute as Mr. Duncan may be, what can he possibly pronounce in a lived-in way from the core of the feminine? Not much, as it turns out. As it turns out, this particular element will require the granting of a big ol' pass from the yin of the readership. You'll just have to forgive him his ignorance and concentrate, instead, on what he has to say about the road men and women share; the one we travel as a species. This is, of course, the highway of humanity and the catastrophe of Life's travail. The words had softly alarmed both of us, in the van's little fan-heated space. I had a piercing feeling of love moving through history like a thin glimmering waterway. Suddenly in the middle of things you suffered these poignancies, found yourself blinking or swallowing or having to look the other way. And... He didn't answer. There was no comfort. Comfort by definition referred to what had happened to him. Comfort was logically self-defeating. In spite of which I wanted so much to put my arms around him. At these moments it was as if God said:  See? There's a reason I put the soul in the body. The body is there for when the soul's money is no good.  There are many of these moments, a substantial selection of crisis wisdoms that weave in and out of the chase and the loss, the grief and the many dire degradations. There is also a phenomenal introduction made in the closing pages that snaps every attentive fiber in the reader's imagination. A new character, and a wise one, who looks to have the answers to just about everything. And (because it amused me to no end):  God bless Manhattan for breeding the most impatient people on the planet! Manhattan impatience saves the world decades that would otherwise be spent not cutting to the chase.  Say what you like about Glen Duncan. He's awfully hard to dismiss.",
   'Wow that was good! I really enjoyed the first book in this series  The Last Werewolf  but this was even better. Talulla is a magnificent creature - a werewolf of course but we mostly see her as a human and one who is dealing with major issues. I loved the idea of baby werewolves, babies who turn into wolf puppies when the moon is full. And they have the same dietary needs as the adult werewolves. Sometimes this book gets a bit gruesome but then these are werewolves we are talking about. Lots of vampire issues too and these are not pretty vampires. Right at the end we are introduced to an intriguing character who on his own makes sure the reader has to go on to read the sequel. I have ordered it already.',
   "[ EAT. FUCK. KILL. That's the werewolf mantra.  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "In the authors first werewolf novel ' The Last Werewolf ' I liked the way he put you in P.O.V mode of the character and the memoir way we learned of the werewolf. I liked The whole interview with a vampire styled way it read like. There was more a faster pace change and was written differently with a stronger male character. Here in this novel, which can be read without reading the first, the werewolf is a female protagonist Talulla who's expectant. Most of the story captures your interest in the ensuing search and possible rescue of her son and the fate of her twins in general from the clutches of vampires and other dangers. These old Vampires who go by the name of 'The Disciples of Remshi' they require her child werewolf for a ritual of very high significance to their leader in order to achieve full power. The story is written well and has his usual humour and deep self reflection on being a werewolf. The story starts of with a slower approach in the first half and the last half picks up momentum as she find herself captive and having to endure very brutal circumstances. She, alongside others, faces tests, rape and torture. The first novel, I mentioned in my review, features high libido activity, this one by far less due to the main character being preoccupied mostly in care of her baby daughter and keeping them in safety from the danger of those that want blood. The time is limited she only has time to the next full moon-eclipse to find and save her son from ruin. The libido activity only comes while stuck in certain situations with others where she finds time to endure her carnal requirements. All around the story was good but felt slightly short in satisfying my expectations left from finishing the first book in expecting more horror and thrill to come. My review also @  http://more2read.com/review/talulla-rising-by-glen-duncan/ The Guardian Newspaper features a good review on this novel:  http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2012/apr/05/talulla-rising-glen-duncan-review?newsfeed=true    ",
   "Glen Duncan's back with the follow up to the brilliant 2011 novel The Last Werewolf. I've been looking forward to see how the story continues as I personally felt the last novel left off with a bit of a cliff-hanger. Talulla Rising continues the story, now from the point of view of Talulla Demetriou; an exciting strong female protagonist, whom I loved simply because she is both kick-ass and full of inner torment. The novel kicks off with a brief look back at Talulla's life before being turned, a slightly too small of a glimpse but enough to give you an idea of the type of woman she was before becoming a werewolf. Like the last novel, Talulla Rising continues the memoir style; not only is there a focus on the inner struggle between the human and wolf side but now Talulla has her mother's side thrown into the mix. WOCOP (World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena) have taken Talulla's newly born son and she is racing to save him before he is used in a horrible blood-drinking ritual. While she is trying to get her son back she is still getting hunted by WOCOP (as Glen Duncan puts it in the book, think CIA meets Keystone Kops meets Spanish Inquisition) as well. As the story progresses you get a sense of just how twisted this organisation. Talulla Rising is a fast paced, exciting novel; dark, gritty and over sexed. I really love how Glen Dunan takes a popular genre that has been selling well and makes it literary and enjoyable to read again. If the constant excitement of this novel doesn't keep you going then the dark humour throughout this book will. From the slight pokes of other authors in literature to Talualla remembering that her first human tasted like onions and whiskey; the humour in this book was pleasing. But when it comes done to it, in the end, the thing I loved the most about this book and the one that come before this, is the internal struggle; there is something about that that always pleases me. I'm looking forward to seeing how Glen Duncan wraps up this trilogy when he releases By Blood We Live; hopefully next year.",
   "Talulla Rising  starts off with a bang and keeps going almost all the way though to its crazy end. Edgy, action-packed, thoughtful, and definitely gristly, it's an entertaining read. I enjoyed it.  The book starts out with the grieving Talulla, eight months pregnant and on the run, hiding up in Alaska hoping to have her child. She's assisted by the androgynous Cloquet (who made me think of Renfield) and a pack of wolves that snuggles up close to keep Talulla to warm after she's had her babies. Of course there are a slew of bad guys after her and her offspring. One of the things I admired about  The Last Werewolf  was the character of Jake. Yes, he talks too much, and he could be a bit of a jerk, but I liked him. He was funny and quirky. I felt like I got to know him. Duncan's writing is refreshingly honest and he gave Jake a surprising candor. He had a lot of personality.  Unfortunately I never felt that way about Talulla. One of the jarring things about  The Last Werewolf  was that when the book jumped into Talulla's point of view you didn't notice it right off the bat. That's because the voice didn't change. Yet it should have -drastically. After all, Talulla is not only a woman and an American, but she is a hundred and seventy years younger than Jake. She should be quite different, but she isn't. That's one of the big flaws of this book. Duncan never truly finds Talulla's voice. He tries. Talulla talks about her post partum depression, her guilt, her grief, her anger, and her blood-thirsty nature, but they all seem to be just excuses for her lack of personality. Without her own unique voice (like Jake most definitely had) she doesn't come alive. Consequently I don't think she was as compelling.  Talulla also does some things that don't quite make sense. For instance, why would she be terrified of being raped when she just used sex to escape a few chapters back? I would have thought she'd be laughing at them, even taunting. “Yeah come here, asshole. I'll bite your dick off!” After all, she's a werewolf - a very dangerous creature. Her previous torture by the creepy scientists was a lot worse than just being raped.  I also thought she fell in love pretty fast. Talulla's grief struck over Jake. She just had two babies, one of them abducted. I would have thought she wouldn't have the energy to get involved with the somewhat bland and boring Walker. The happy ending on the end seemed just a little bit too convenient, like even the author didn't believe it.  The next major flaw is the incredible deus ex machina at the end. I was like, come on, you've got to be kidding me.  I do like this world that Duncan has created though. The werewolves have a cool dynamic. There is an unspoken communication between them that makes them stick together and back each other up, even though it may not be necessarily what their human half wants. I love this mix of wolfish and human tendencies.  Duncan also makes it's clear that werewolves are gruesome cannibals. While in  The Last Werewolf  this devouring of human flesh almost has a Vor quality, it's even more disturbing in this book. Duncan makes Talulla a true monster, which was shocking and disturbing, yet I admired it a lot. So in the end, while this book is very flawed, I enjoyed it. I'll definitely be reading book 3. I give  Talulla Rising  3 ½ stars. *buddy read with Sony*",
   "Talulla Rising is book two in Glen Ducan's The Last Werewolf trilogy. The first book, The Last Werewolf, came out in 2011 to much fanfare. I didn't think it lived up to the hype, but I still think it's a book that horror fans might like to check out. It's certainly nowhere near the literary heights of horror classics like Dracula or Frankenstein, but it does bring a grown-up werewolf to the contemporary literary scene. Let me start with what I liked about Talulla Rising: I like the world Duncan has created, even if I don't always admire how he executes the story. It's a world where werewolves and vampires are physically repellant to one another. Most humans seem oblivious to the monsters in their midst, but a small paramilitary organization is out to capture or kill them. Vampires get  vampire burnout  from living forever and not being able to eat real food or have sex or walk in the sunshine: vampires are depressives, centuries of no sunlight. Seasonal Affective Disorder on a massive scale.  Werewolves live about 400 years and even Jake Marlowe from book one was ready to be done with it after only 200 years of eating, shagging, and walking in the sunshine. There is some good, dark humor throughout the story. Jake's advice to Talullah that she keep reading will tug at the heart and library card of most bibliophiles:  Literature is humanity's broad-minded alter-ego, with room in its heart even for monsters, even for you. It's humanity without the judgement. Trust me, it'll help.  She thinks of his words after noticing the pages of Moll Flanders fluttering on the table near an open window. How can anyone not appreciate that sentiment or image? Duncan also won me over with the idea of species sympathy:  a feeling of accommodating something you never imagined you'd have room for. At the time I'd thought: that's what God wants us to do, find room for each other the way He finds room for Everything.  Least you think this book has gone soft or religious, the sprouting of Talulla's species sympathy gets its energy from a moment in the past when she secretly sniffed her best friend's recently worn underwear. This species sympathy is part of a huge shift that's underway in Talullah Rising and which I'm assuming will play out in book three, By Blood We Live (click here to read a NYT interview where Duncan mentions the title). Overall, however, Talulla Rising lands a bit lower on my rating scale than did its predecessor, The Last Werewolf. There's some poor, uneven writing throughout, particularly in the first 100 pages or so when it seems that Duncan was still looking for Talulla's voice. In the beginning she sounds exactly like Jake Marlowe (the last werewolf character of book one) and even uses male slang to describe her own masturbatory act. I've never heard a woman say she  jerked off.  Perhaps it's a British thing. I'd need to give the book a second reading to sort out the vast array of sexual violence and stereotypes about women, men, rape, and motherhood (there's lots of angst about motherhood). In short it seems that Talullah's voracious female libido has to be counterbalanced by rape, prostitution, domestic violence, and/or the pornographic subjugation of women. It's like feminism never happened. I'm all for a healthy libido and it would be refreshing to see a woman character have one that can stand on its own. Another sexual device that I found offensive is Talulla's teasing speculation about not if, but when she'll have sex with another woman. Sure, Jake Marlowe had sex with a few guys over the 200 year span of his werewolf existence, but this hint of woman-on-woman sex came off like a cheap Hollywood ploy designed to keep some people watching (or reading). And speaking of characters, don't get me started on Mr. Walker. He's a walking, talking, plastic stereotype and the plot twist regarding him toward the end, with the help of the babysitter, is a cheap deus ex machina. I had a hard time suspending my disbelief with the non-supernatural aspects of this novel. I'm hoping book three will rely less on stereotypes and cheap tricks and have more species sympathy. If you really liked The Last Werewolf, you'll no doubt want to rush out to your local bookstore and pick up Talulla Rising. If you thought The Last Werewolf was just so-so, I recommend you check it out of the library. If you didn't like The Last Werewolf, I imagine you'd like the follow-up even less so, but you never know.",
   "Tallula Demetriou - the Greek-Irish American werewolf and the sole survivor of the lycanthropes from the incredible first novel, The Last Werewolf - is left alone and bereft following the death of her lover, Jake. Like Jake was, Tallula is now finds herself in ever present danger due to WOCOP (World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena) and some deity-like vampires. Amidst all this, Tallula is about to give birth.  Can Tallula and her bloodline survive the monstrous world, while ironically giving into animalistic urges themselves? This is pacey like the latter third of the first novel, rather than the reflective Marlowe-esque musings of Jake; it suits the modern woman of the 21st century.  Duncan is his usual witty self. Tallula Rising is dark, sardonic, wickedly humourous and completely irreverent. Duncan's observations and social commentary ensure that Tallulla Rising bounds ahead of the rest of the werewolf genre. This is a fine book for any reader after something fresh and edgy and clever. Duncan also attracts readers of horror and dark fantasy, as he manages to weave all these elements into a gripping narrative that will hold you by your throat and not let go. The novel and its biting prose is lethally effective...  ",
   "4 stars - English Ebook  Ilike Glen Duncan's writing, you could say a little dark. The way he spins a tale, draws the scenery and pulls you in are wonderful.  I enjoyed Talulla Rising, but not nearly as much as its predecessor, it took my some time to take it in. Jake Marlowe was a relate-able character to me, he was likable and enjoyable, I would have enjoyed having a cocktail with him.  Talulla, however, is somehow less human. I understand that she was holding back her emotions for most of the book, I'm kind of like that myself in that I put my feelings on hold when I have to get something done- hysteria isn't productive. However, it just managed to make her kind of unlikable for some reason.",
   "“Salty arterial blood gouted into my mouth as I crunched through his neck, his trachea collapsing with the sound of a cheeto being squeezed in a child's fist.” Oh, sorry. That's a bit graphic for the beginning of a review, I know. I'm just getting you ready for what you're in for if you read  Talullah Rising , Glen Duncan's follow up to the hilarious and damn enjoyable lycanthropic romp  The Last Werewolf . Be warned.  Twilight  this isn't.  Seriously, if you're squeamish, look away. This is not the book for you. You will spend time in the head of a character who occasionally eats peoples' still beating hearts, a lady who will punch her werewolf claws through the warm wrap of someone's abdominal muscles, her talons grasping a bundled fistful of viscera before exploding back out in an expanding flower of crimson and shit.  Yep. There's some serious gore in here! However, if you can handle the heat in the gore-kitchen then you're in for some fun. Duncan once again demonstrates his prodigious talents, taking readers on a wild ride through the vampire and werewolf infested life of Talullah Demetriou. Continuing on from  The Last Werewolf , Talullah is now alone, grieving her lover Jake (The titular last werewolf of the first book) and heavily pregnant. As you can imagine, being up the duff isn't ideal for someone who turns into a slavering monster once a month, and Talullah, along with a human familiar, has retreated to the Alaskan wilderness to give birth, with her next meal chained up in the basement and a whole lot of clean towels and hot water ready to go. Naturally, birth isn't a smooth process. Someone wants a werewolf of their own, and a baby one, stolen while it's mother is weak, is too good an opportunity to pass up. The theft is carried out and so begins a global chase as Talullah fights to find out who stole her child and why. From here the story drives forward at a relentless pace, and keeps the action coming. And, hooboy, there's some serious action. Duncan doesn't gild the lily in his version of werewolf-dom. While there are numerous perks - a 400 year lifespan, Wolverine-like healing, heightened senses - the monthly transformation into a bloodthirsty killer who craves human flesh is shown as pure horror. The raw fleshlust of Duncan's werewolves as they tear people to pieces in hedonistic orgies of murder is something grotesque to behold. This horror leads to some interesting character arcs. Duncan's characters have to deal with the fracturing juxtaposition between being a normal functioning person in society, with friends, bills, family, etc. while knowing they are going to chew someone's leg off and eat it once a month. Duncan deals with this deftly, exploring the monster within (who very much becomes the monster without) and the accommodations people make with their own darkness. It all works pretty well as a package. Duncan knows what he's doing, and mostly rises above the cliches and dross, the my-lover-the-sexy-werewolf junk that clogs up bookshelves across the world. This isn't as strong a book as  The Last Werewolf  (the  Citizen Kane   of werewolf novels) and some of the plot developments are a touch obvious, but it's still a damn compelling read. I'm very much looking forward to the next installment of Talullah's adventures.  Three point five arterial spurts out of five.",
   "I read The Last Werewolf about a year before this second book of the series and really enjoyed it, so when the sequels came on sale, I had to have them. It didn't take long for me to start getting involved in the story. Tallulah is pregnant. The pregnancy from Hell is exacerbated by the wulf foetus clawing from inside and by the need to hide from those who are adamant about hunting the last werewolves to extinction as well as vampires. The writing is very good, which is part of the reason I enjoyed the first book so much. This story has a strong sexual element, not like romance graphic porn but more gritty with a matter of fact approach to being a werewolf does things to the libido and off-camera sex. I can't say I enjoyed it as much as the first book. I think I basically didn't like Talullah and her depressive attitude towards life, the universe and everything. Parts of the later story became hard for me to visualise and muddled.  Having said that, the last quarter or so of the book was high action and had some interesting twists, some of which set it up for the third book. 3.5 stars, rounded to 4 for GR.",
   "Loved this! as much as the one before it,  The Last Werewolf . Talulla Rising doesn't pick up immediately where The Last Werewolf left off. Talulla is almost 8 months pregnant and is starting to have trouble with the pregnancy as well as full moon coming. In the throws of labor she is found by the vampires seeking her blood for the Helios project. Told in Talulla's point of view, the story sweeps you in and flows like water. Talulla is a strong female character that knows how to take charge and be assertive and fight for her children. Still mourning the loss of Jake, she refuses to give up on life even tho she can't let go of him. There are other strong female characters, some we were intrduced to in The Last Werewolf, like Madeline and Mia. We also are introduced to new characters, some we don't expect to see, who change Talulla's life and the way she sees others.  I love how it shows life as not black and white. Not all the monsters out there have fangs. Humans have such a potential for death and pain, escpecially for those that are different from us or things we don't fully understand. Murdoch and WOCOP is a perfect example of this.  There is so much going on in this book that it keeps you on the edge of your seat til the end. There are constant twists and turns and things you don't see coming. Its also full of sex and violence and the wulf psychology revolves around this. The wulf libido wanes and waxes with the moon and is in full force when they are turned during full moon. If you are easily offended by sex and violence don't read this series. The kills themselves are full of detail and you can see how they relish their meals. Full of blood and gore and sex this is an awesome adult themed horror story.  Overall, I loved this one. Anyone that enjoyed The Last Werewolf should continue the story with Talulla Rising and I would recommend reading The Last Werewolf first. I hated to see the book end. I wanted more and hope there is another book down the line. This is definitely an over 18 book as there is not only violence but alot of sex, but the book is so much more than the sum of its parts. All of it flowed together making each part necessary to complete the picture. ",
   "This took me forever to finish and I am a fast reader - I just kept putting it down and days would go by before I picked it up again..it is the 2nd in a trilogy and overall the first (The Last Werewolf) was a better read. In this one Tululla, a werewolf, has two kid/werewolves and one is stolen by a secret society trying to strengthen an ubervamp.. anyway Talulla and her gang plot, get caught, plot, get caught, plot, get caught...etc. And through-out their efforts to retrieve the stolen baby/wolf, we the readers, are hit over the head with the sexual needs/demands of werewolves...It's like reading a 13 year old boy's wet dream. The author uses every word he knows to describe sex and the needs of the werewolves ...I mean really, I get it - the werewolves MUST have sex, are ALWAYS thinking of having sex, CAN NOT function without sex...it's just so ....BORING. I ended up skipping a lot of pages as the plot bogged down in another failed plan or another sexual escapade. And, SPOOILER AHEAD -so stop reading now.. WOCOP, while in a bit of organizational mess, seems to be completely unaware that there are a new group of werewolves in England - a tiny country. Whatever. It does pick up at the last 30 pages or so - when all the suspects are in the same room - so to speak -  I bought the first one, but got this from the Library (Yeah Public Libraries) and that was a good economical decision on my part. The third one - I don't know if I will read it or not - but I will again use my public library.",
   "In this sequel to The Last Werewolf, we follow Tallula Demetriou as she, pregnant and close to giving birth, to her deceased lover's (the aforementioned last werewolf, Jake Marlowe, or so he thought in the previous book, until he ran into recently Turned Lulu and they fell in love) child. That is, until she gives birth to twins. On the run from Hunters (part of WOCOP, a global organization bent on destroying vampires and werewolves), and vampires determined to capture her and her child, for their blood, which could potentially allow the  boochies  to walk in daylight. Watched over by her handler, Cloquet, while giving birth isn't enough when they're attacked in a remote Alaskan cabin and her son is taken by a vampire cult bent on possessing the werewolf blood. Tallula still has a newly born daughter to care for, but struggles internally with this newfound being she's responsible for, who will be a moonstruck monster like Mommy once a month, while trying desperately to find out where her son was taken. Unrelentingly and unapologetically horrifying, and erotic, Duncan sprinkles in the snarky wit and stream of consciousness musings that made the first book so refreshing and unique. Lots of twists and turns make the plot barrel along to its cliff hangerish conclusion. The third book was recently released, entitled By Blood We Live.",
   "I give this book ALL OF THE STARS. It was great, and even better than the first which I already loved. I won't talk about it too much since it's the middle of the trilogy and practically everything that I could talk about involves spoilers, but this is everything a sequel should be. The action was non-stop, the characters well drawn out (we get a different narrator here and it works brilliantly), and the story showed progress towards a definitive ending.  This is really shaping up to be one of my favourite adult series, and I just can't get enough of Glen Duncan's writing. Just assume the rest of this review would be lots of gushy praise, and go out and pick up the original if you like your stories dark, gory and full of mayhem!",
   "Book Info :  Genre : Dark Urban Fantasy Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : fans of werewolf stories, those who like Duncan's style, those who find werewolves tragic and might like to see a different type. Trigger Warnings : Lots of “Mommy” triggers. If you have children, be prepared to cringe a lot. Rape (male, female). Murder. My Thoughts : This book is a sequel to  The Last Werewolf  ( that review linked here  where formatting allowed). Even the synopsis for this book has spoilers for the last, so if you have not yet read  The Last Werewolf , and you do not wish to have it spoiled for you, it would be in your best interest to not read any of the plot details about this book. However, I have done my best to keep spoilers out of this section, so you should be safe reading until you hit my disclosure section. I should warn that if you are looking for the same sort of wry, understated humor as the first book, you will be disappointed. Duncan switches writing style to match this new character, Talulla. Jake was a very old werewolf, one who had been alive almost 200 years, had seen it all, done it all, been through it all—and it showed. Talulla, however, is young as werewolves go, is still learning her way through things, still coming to terms with things, and doesn't have the same sort of feel to her voice. So, in many ways, this is a very different book. Oh, there are still plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, especially in the first few chapters, set in Alaska. But in many ways, while I called the first book Urban Fantasy, this is a much darker book; one I would almost label as horror, but not quite (based on the ending, which is not a horror-book ending). I especially want to warn mothers. If you've read the synopsis, then you know Talulla's son is kidnapped. This is just one of the very mother-nightmare-inducing things that happens in the book, and honestly? One of the mildest. So be prepared to spend a lot of time, if you are a mother, freaking right out. Because this book is written by a different person, so to speak, it has a very different feel to it. That beautiful, polished lyricism that Jake possessed, based upon his age and the age in which he was born, is missing from American, Manhattan-raised Talulla. But that didn't make the story any less absorbing. Oftentimes werewolf stories make me too sad. I find the idea of werewolves to be unbearably tragic, since the traditional werewolf becomes feral at the full moon, unable to control him- or herself, and thus often destroys those around him or her unknowingly, leaving them depressed and upset once they are aware. However, Duncan's werewolves do not go feral—they maintain consciousness, full memory of who they are—they just have the Hunger to deal with. They must kill and eat at the full moon or, eventually, they will die. Although this is still often tragic, to me it's not quite as tragic for some reason. I guess because they have some choice in the matter. At any rate, all this basically means that if you are like me and find the idea of werewolves to be sad, you might enjoy these books anyway. I can see some potentials for additional books in this universe. What will the small roads to friendship with the vampires (revealed late in the book) lead to? What about Mia? Will she forgive the thing with Caleb? How about Marco? What will happen with him? How about the “new” werewolves? The idea of packs has been born—will that make them more or less susceptible to WOCOP's Hunts? Or will the Hunts continue? Questions, questions, questions. I hope to see more! I've decided to continue the theme by next reading Benjamin Percy's upcoming book  Red Moon , so expect some compare and contrasts. Meanwhile, if you enjoy werewolf books—or even if you don't, based upon that previous paragraph—you will want to read this one. I have picked up a copy of Duncan's book  I, Lucifer  based on how much I enjoy his writing and will be reading it when I can, which basically means I highly recommend Duncan in general, and these werewolf books in particular. Check 'em out. Disclosure : I received an uncorrected proof ARC through the Amazon Vine program in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own. Synopsis :  When I change I change fast. The moon drags the whatever-it-is up from the earth and it goes through me with crazy wriggling impatience . . . I'm twisted, torn, churned, throttled—then rushed through a blind chicane into ludicrous power . . . A heel settles. A last canine hurries through. A shoulder blade pops. The woman is a werewolf. The woman is Talulla Demetriou. She's grieving for her werewolf lover, Jake, whose violent death has left her alone with her own sublime monstrousness. On the run, pursued by the hunters of WOCOP (World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena), she must find a place to give birth to Jake's child in secret. The birth, under a full moon at a remote Alaska lodge, leaves Talulla ravaged, but with her infant son in her arms she believes the worst is over—until the windows crash in, and she discovers that the worst has only just begun . . . What follows throws Talulla into a race against time to save both herself and her child as she faces down the new, psychotic leader of WOCOP, a cabal of blood-drinking religious fanatics, and (rumor has it) the oldest living vampire. ",
   "This book is not half as good as the first one in Glen Duncan's werewolf trilogy, The Last Werewolf. I had a number of problems with Talulla Rising: 1)Most of the time, the story evinced pretty shoddy writing and the choices the author made about what to include in the story were puzzling: --The book seemed fixated on sex. This is not a criticism put forth due to prudery; its treatment just seemed so artless. It seemed as if every fourth thought in Lu's head was about sex—nothing enlightening that would advance the story, mind you, but just for the heck of it. We get it--werewolf libido is its own master, but there has to be some better way to convey this than just shoehorning it everywhere in the most annoying ways.  --Pages and pages of Talulla's thoughts would just interrupt conversations or action in the story. So we'd have a scene that's paused just so we'd get Lu's superficial assessment of a character, their family background, and their psychological profile, or we'd have to suffer through her ruminations on other random things that added zero to the story. --So often—too often—in her ponderings, Lu would just hark back to her only human friend, Lauren vouching for whatever point Lu was trying to make to the readers, acting as an example for those points. Was this supposed to humanize Lu, emphasizing how much her werewolf life has diverged from normal life? It just seemed artificial to have her recall her former friend constantly—a friend who served no purpose and one whom we never got to know, so could give a flying fuck about.  2) The narrative voice was boring, and since we have to spend the entire book with this voice as our portal to the story, the story suffered mightily. I could've ignored all of the above flaws had the story not been boring. In The Last Werewolf, Jake Marlowe and his literature references, existential musings, and philosophical questions on the nature of killing people and his own tortured history with his family made for a refreshing, literary spin on the age-old werewolf story. I didn't mind spending time with him throughout the book. Unfortunately, Jake's love, Talulla doesn't have a voice or character that's up to the challenge to succeed Jake. Duncan seemed to want to imbue her with sexiness, pathos, contradictions, complexity, thoughtfulness—none of which really worked to make her interesting. Her supposedly interesting 'tics,'—her sex drive, her conflict about embracing her animal nature (sex drive, killing, blah, blah, blah), her “bad girl” identity (see lame prologue) her yearning for Jake, her reluctant and then full embrace of maternal feelings—were all so milquetoast. No amount of quoting from Jake's diaries could compensate for her boring character. Because of the above flaws, getting through the first 200 pages of the book was a huge chore. However, once we move beyond Talulla and friends sitting around waiting for something to happen and get to the real action, the story moved pretty briskly and I finally got into the book. The stakes did seem pretty high all of a sudden. In the first part of the book I swore to myself that I would not be moving on to the future book 3. But you know what? I'm going to have to come back to the story whenever book 3 comes out. Damn it! Duncan dangled a huge mystery towards the end so I need to know what happens next. So evil. My experience with this trilogy is similar to my reading of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo trilogy: the books weren't very special and were often times boring and frustrating, but I went back to that series each damn time. So I guess the author gets the last laugh!",
   "Talulla is in an Alaska cottage to have her baby. She is in hiding from WOCOP organisation and vampires who want to use her kind as a scientific experiment and assessment. But her life, and the life of her baby, is soon threatened when her hiding place is discovered and she needs to use every ounce of her being to fight to protect her family. Talulla Rising is the 2nd book in the Last Werewolf series by Glen Duncan and I felt this book was very different. In the Last Werewolf you meet Jake who deals with the physiological issues of being the last werewolf; he was lonely and suicidal. Whereas Talulla has a goal and a purpose for living; she used her strength, sexually and knowledge from Jake's diary to go all out to reach her goal. Talulla is one amazing beast, woman and mother; she had to endure the most extreme physical and mental punishment imaginable. It was painful to read at times and hardcore in every possible way. What I also liked about this book was the element of surprise in every corner. I had no idea what was to come next or where it was headed, but it was a pure adrenaline rush and fast paced from start to finish with a few new disturbing characters you meet along the way. This is completely awesome and highly recommend it if you've loved the Last Werewolf. The only disappointment is now I have to wait a year for book 3.",
   "This book had such promise: a world where vampires hunt (or is that breed) werewolfs (or wer wulfs ) and other oddities. The problem is the writing. I know this is a sequel, and perhaps that's the problem (I haven't read the first book). On the other hand, it could also be the writing style. Here's what I mean: far too much is alluded to in one place, with bits and pieces of explanation leaking out in a sort-of  nyah nyah I know what's going on and you don't  manner. Take Talulla's nightmares as an example. She mentions that there are three of them and even talks about two. Then there's a strong hint about the third. And later, another hint. Later still, another. Finally we get to know what the third nightmare is, but by then I didn't really care. I like books that stand alone, which this does. But by a quarter of the way through, I hadn't been made to care about the situation or the characters, and the hints and circular writing didn't help. ARC provided by publisher.",
   "After reading The Last Werewolf by Glen Duncan and having a hard time getting into the story at first, I was a little hesitant to pick this one up. BOY AM I GLAD I DID!!! I have always loved werewolf stories, but of late, they seem to only be in romance novel disguised at horror or silly teenage heart-throb tales with shiny vampires... Though there is plenty of romance, this is not a PG-13 tale of teenage longing. It is a visceral, violent adult story with true horror, lust, sex and gore.  Following the main character's (Talulla) development as she expands her acceptance of what and who she is, while reluctantly embracing motherhood is a fascinating joyride into a beloved genre that is often abused and given little depth. Instead of lip-service, Duncan dives headlong into the tough questions of morality, love, and parental torment as he bring the raw being of his characters to the reader in full spectrum. His unblinking glimpses their reality are sometimes unpleasant, unclean and unrelenting but by the end you find your appetite ready for more... A Must Read for the Wolf-fan!!! ",
   'Wonderful Read. Engrossing, driving force, very difficult to put down. Arguably as good as the first installment.',
   "Raw. This is the one word that I would use to describe this book. The sex is abundant. The consumption by werewolves is explicit and repeated. The action is nonstop. I do not usually like books that are this bloody and sexually explicit. Talulla thinks that she is the last werewolf except for her young. Her mate was killed in the previous book. The same bad guys exist just the sides aren't necessarily the same . Not my usual fare, but not bad. ",
   "Man, I  really  wanted to love Duncan's  Talulla Rising  as much as I loved    The Last Werewolf   , but I can't say that I did. Was it because I wasn't really in the mood for pages and pages of a pregnant werewolf's guilty conscience? Perhaps. There was a  crispness  to  The Last Werewolf  that I didn't find here in Duncan's sequel... a fierce juxtaposition of language that I found exciting. But Talulla just wasn't as engrossing a character as Jake was. She's hung up on him (he died at the end of the first book), and she's terrified of what she's got in her sometimes-furry werewolf oven. Is it a human baby or a werewolf cub? Will she survive birth?  Will she eat it?!   The majority of the first part of the book is setting us up in Talulla's life -- where she is now, who's in her corner, what her objectives are, what's going on in the werewolf-vampire dynamic since Jake died. It's rather boring, actually, even though Duncan delivers us (ahem) the werewolf birth and a vampire cub-napping all in one night in this part. Things don't really pick up until Talulla gets a crew together and decides to go after the baby boy, Lorcan, but the momentum to recover her stolen offspring is slowed because --  dum dum DUM!  -- she really was pregnant with twins and the second baby, Zoe, was not whisked away by smelly boogies.  IF Talulla had stormed forward fueled with righteous motherhood, that would have been one thing. But what Duncan gave us was a lot of in-Talulla's-head about how she wasn't sure she was cut out to be a mother, how she contemplated letting the vampires just have Lorcan (because, hey!, she's got a spare!), and on and on about how she couldn't allow herself to love Zoe until she got Lorcan back. Ugh. Okay, so... NOT awful, but still!  Jake was so easy to empathize with, and he was a 200-year-old bored werewolf. Talulla -- a pregnant widow who was still  wanted  (but not  hunted ) and whose child was taken from her -- should have been a character that you wanted to root for, to feel her loss and want vengeance for her and her family. Instead, I found myself just kinda reading along like,  huh.  Most of the sub-characters in the book were described but not really explained. Luckily, we met Madeline through Jake in Book One, so she was easier to like. But Talulla's familiar/handler (also from Book One) was rather pathetic, and the guards-turned-werewolves were little more than descriptions before they turned (when we finally got to see a little bit more of their personalities).  Okay, FULL DISCLOSURE: I'm also taking an online editing class right now and just read a lesson on  showing , not  telling , so I was more inclined to notice this in Duncan's writing now (compared to when I read  The Last Werewolf . I still really like his take on werewolves (original) and vampires, and I'm interested to see what he does with a  pack  and this age-old vamp, Marco. Now that Talulla's got herself a werewolf-man and a sense of family, I hope that Duncan finds a way to bring out some kind of  oomph  in her. I'm not saying she needs to shine like glitter in the sunlight, but I want her to grow into her badass self and actually take some control instead of letting everyone guide her around (while she insists on going along but doesn't really do anything). Human-Talulla needs to learn some SKILLS, if this pack is going to be successful with whatever danger Marco throws their way, they're going to have to unite into a clan. Now I don't want to waste this entire review in criticism, because Duncan still pulled off a good story and some really nice  ahh  moments... I think I missed the language, which, since this book was from Talulla's POV and she doesn't have those 200 years of knowledge I can totally understand why he dialed that down. But will Duncan allow her to have a happy ending? I'm not entirely sure, and that is exciting. What will he come up with, and how will he let a third book rest? I guess we'll find out, eventually.",
   "If you haven't read the first book, you can't just jump in with this one. While the story stands on its own merits, you really need the background of The Last Werewolf to get the full story. As with my review of its predecessor, this is not a book for anyone under 18! I should almost put that in all caps. The coarse language, sexual content and graphic killings are almost too much for me to handle as an adult. Switching over from the voice of Jake to that of Tallula, I thought the obsession with all things anal would subside. While tampered down, it is definitely still present. The story of the werewolf and vampire is unwound a little more in this book. And much of what happens catches the reader by surprise, though some parts are predictable. Even being able to guess the next step doesn't make for any less enjoyment. I'd really say my only complaint, aside from the richness of and ongoing vulgarity, was the factual misstep. The moon is on a 28 day cycle, not 30! Overall, a superb story. Listening to this on audiobook was thoroughly satisfying. The first book was told through the voice of Jake and therefore, a man. This book, being told through the eyes of a woman, was narrated by an excellent actress who could still give the male characters depth and believability.",
   "Note:   There are necessarily spoilers for Book One in this series, The Last Werewolf, but none for this book, the sequel. Talulla is a female werewolf who survived the murder of her werewolf lover Jake, killed by WOCOP, an anti-supernatural organization. WOCOP is still in the picture, but under new leadership and more outrageous than ever. The operatives of WOCOP seemed almost rational in Book One; in Book Two, the members are too deranged to be believable.  Talulla was left with a surprise by Jake - she is pregnant. Quite soon into the story, she bears twins, and one of them is kidnapped by vampires who believe that werewolf blood will allow them to walk in the light. [The belief that walking in the sun will be enabled by ingesting the blood of another non-human species is now a pretty common trope in vampire fiction. “True Blood” watchers, for example, know that in the Charlaine Harris-inspired fantasy world, vampires think  faery  blood will accomplish this goal.] For the rest of the story, Talulla is trying to get her first child back; worrying about not eating the second one; and you know - the usual motherhood concerns. She is, moreover, always in the thrall of werewolf animal lust - not just during the full moon, but  all the time . [Unfamiliar with the concept of TMI, she never misses a chance to share her fantasies with the readers.] But all this sex-drive business makes her feel guilty; lust and motherhood are not supposed to go together. [Someone has been soaking up too much of that virgin/whore propaganda!] If all of this sounds silly or offensive, it comes out less so in the hands of Glen Duncan, but only  just .  Discussion:  I was highly impressed with the Duncan's literary representation of genre fiction in  The Last Werewolf . His fleshing out of the werewolf metaphor, interesting take on existential ennui, clever phrase construction, and numerous literary allusions elevated that first effort, in my mind, to something special. This second book disappointed me, however. This time, many of the literary and cultural allusions seemed gratuitous or even silly. The references to the beastliness of the werewolf sounded more like porn than commentary on our animal natures. And the plot struck me as closer to that of a late-late-Saturday night  C  movie than to the sophisticated tale Duncan wove in Book One. The repeated scenes of putative calm interrupted by attacks from armed predators lacked only commercial breaks between onslaughts. In fact, I almost didn't finish it (but as it happened, I was on the road and out of books!).  Evaluation:  I would still recommend Book One ( The Last Werewolf ), but wouldn't necessary endorse Book Two,  Talulla Rising . Rating:  1.5/5",
   "Flashback to more than a year ago, when I found out that Glen Duncan's next book was a werewolf tale: I balked at the news that one of my favorite living writers was poised to take on a genre that thoroughly disinterested me. It's not that my faith in Duncan isn't unwavering -- because it is, completely and infinitely -- but rather because I'm still not keen on this whole paranormal-beasties fad that's producing oceans of unreadable dross. And when I found out that the expected novel was the first in a trilogy, the snob in me couldn't contain the disapproving clucks that I couldn't help but utter. Did any of that dissuade me from pre-ordering  The Last Werewolf  as soon as Amazon let me? Psh, of course not. I figured if anyone could make me read (and enjoy) a book about a two-centuries-old lycanthrope, it'd be Duncan. The interminable fangirl in me was right, naturally, and I ate up Jake Marlowe's story like it was packaged with a pre-wrapped spoon. So when I realized that  Talulla Rising  was released in the UK about two months before it'd descend stateside, you'd better believe that I frantically scoured the internet for a British copy (also, I like the cover art on the UK versions better). And when it arrived nearly two weeks earlier than I expected (thanks, Alibris!), you could maybe hear my paroxysms of squealing glee across the Atlantic. Never has a book been divested of its shipping container with almost pornographic enthusiasm than this one. As I let myself get lost in the story, excitement gave way to the insight that I honestly  care  about Talulla. For being a female character wrought by a masculine hand, her internal maternal battles were heart-wrenching in their believability. The stab of loss that paralyzes her every time she misses Jake prompted me on more than one occasion to call my husband just to hear his voice. She's an outwardly strong character in every sense of the word so being privy to her constant fears and insecurities added a depth that made the bad girl who grew up to be a werewolf so poignantly vulnerable. And that's the thing: These characters have actual, dimensional feelings! Feelings beyond  I'd like some paranormal sexin' now  or  Whatever shall I wear so the vampires will find me pretty?  Complex feelings in a(n ostensibly) paranormal novel! Imagine!",
   "I'm really going to miss this 'series', if it can be called that. This is only the second (and presumably last) book, but it feels like it could go on. Perhaps Duncan will return to it. Although not as stellar as the first, 'Talulla Rising' does offer something really unique and interesting- a sympathetic female protagonist that really shouldn't be. Talulla is a werewolf, and she kills without remorse (mostly). Her victims are not necessarily always innocent, but they aren't deserving of the fate she brings. And sometimes her victims are too innocent. I won't put in spoilers, but at one point in this book I wasn't sure I could finish because the potential moral implications of one of her kills. It's a unflinching portrait of a real monster.  Somehow Duncan manages to make her sympathetic though by showing her as a new mother. Some of the language, descriptions, similes, and metaphors he uses to describe a mother's feelings and snapshots of those first few moments are really profound and insightful. I hate to say this but his gender raised my bar of expectations for this topic. I really expected him to fail, but for the most part he came through in getting inside his protagonists head in most of the very gendered experiences she encountered. I say for the most part because my main criticism of this book is that I never completely forgot that it was Duncan pulling Talulla's strings. I couldn't get lost in this book the way I got lost in the first book because Duncan really never establishes Talulla's voice. She's a female version of Jake from the 'The Last Werewolf'. While I believe in male and female soulmates who mirror each other in thought and action, it doesn't seem purposefully done here. Jake and Talulla seem to be extensions of Duncan himself. There are no real distinguishing features or quirks that make Talulla a real flesh and blood person of her own. And so the book reads like Duncan mimicking a female's thoughts and voice. It's really high pitch and similar to a woman's, but I never forgot it was him telling Talulla's story.  But it's a great story. Fast paced, filled with lots of twists and surprises (maybe a few too many to be fully plausible sometimes), and the writing is beautiful. I was thoroughly entertained, and will be seeking out Duncan's other works.",
   "TALULLA DEMETRIOU, YOU HAVE BEEN A VERY ...BAD ...GIRL When I change I change fast. The moon drags the whatever-it-is up from the earth and it goes through me with crazy wriggling impatience . . . I'm twisted, torn, churned, throttled—then rushed through a blind chicane into ludicrous power . . . A heel settles. A last canine hurries through. A shoulder blade pops. The woman is a werewolf.   The woman is Talulla Demetriou.  She's grieving for her werewolf lover, Jake, whose violent death has left her alone with her own sublime monstrousness. On the run, pursued by the hunters of WOCOP (World Organisation for the Control of Occult Phenomena), she must find a place to give birth to Jake's child in secret.   The birth, under a full moon at a remote Alaska lodge, leaves Talulla ravaged, but with her infant son in her arms she believes the worst is over—until the windows crash in, and she discovers that the worst has only just begun . . .  What follows throws Talulla into a race against time to save both herself and her child as she faces down the new, psychotic leader of WOCOP, a cabal of blood-drinking religious fanatics, and (rumor has it) the oldest living vampire. Harnessing the same audacious imagination and dark humor, the same depths of horror and sympathy, the same full-tilt narrative energy with which he crafted his acclaimed novel The Last Werewolf, Glen Duncan now gives us a heroine like no other, the definitive twenty-first-century female of the species.  http://www.theguardian.com/books/2012... There is something liberating about a novel like this. As well as offering a new vantage point from which to consider the old questions of life, it also provides a welcome fantasy in which there is not just extreme sex and violence (including the werewolf lovers' full-moon ritual  fuckkilleat ), but also smoking, drinking and a lot of very fancy hotels. Werewolves can't get cancer and don't need pensions. Who wouldn't want to be part of their world for a while?  Loved every wickedly witty, bloody, bawdy page - business as usual for Glen Duncan"],
  '_version_': 1748767598147796992},
 {'id': '31734',
  'author': ['Gavin Weston'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "Harmattan (from an Arabic word meaning destructive wind ) tells the story of Haoua, a young girl growing up in a remote village in the Republic of Niger. Spirited independent and intelligent, Haoua has benefitted from a stable home life and a loving and attentive mother. She enjoys working and playing with her siblings and friends. Haoua worships her elder brother, Abdelkrim, a serving soldier who sends money home to support the family. But, on his last home visit, Abdelkrim quarrels with their father accusing him of gambling away the money he sends and being the cause of their mother s worsening health. It also emerges that their father plans to take a second wife. Despite this Haoua finds contentment in her schoolwork, her dreams of becoming a teacher and in writing assiduously to the family in Ireland who act as her aid sponsors. But for Haoua, there are new storm clouds on the horizon. As civil strife mounts in Niger, Haoua begins to fear for Abdelkrim s safety. Haoua's mother's illness is much more serious and further advanced than anyone had recognised and her father s plans are turning out to be far more threatening than she could have ever imagined. Approaching her twelfth birthday, Haoua is alone and vulnerable for the very first time in her life.",
  'genre': ['Cultural',
   'Africa',
   'Fiction',
   'Western Africa',
   'Niger',
   'Historical',
   'Historical Fiction',
   'Contemporary',
   'Young Adult',
   'Coming Of Age',
   'War',
   'Literary Fiction',
   'Literature',
   '21st Century'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1377344794l/12981852.jpg',
  'isbn': '1905802579',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12981852-harmattan',
  'page_count': '512',
  'rating': 3.94,
  'review_count': 39,
  'title': 'harmattan',
  'rating_count': 204,
  'price': 20.28,
  'sensitivity': ['war',
   'rape',
   'religion',
   'murder',
   'violence',
   'slavery',
   'sexism',
   'death',
   'abuse',
   'genocide',
   'depression',
   'alcohol',
   'pregnancy',
   'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['fierce',
   'struggle',
   'top',
   'new',
   'horrific',
   'recommend',
   'brutal',
   'fantastic',
   'compelling',
   'poor',
   'powerful',
   'arc',
   'worth',
   'wonderful',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'shocking',
   'worse',
   'unexpected',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'heart',
   'terrible',
   'lovely',
   'special',
   'twist',
   'vivid',
   'emotional',
   'struggling',
   'fairytale',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'serve',
   'disturbing',
   'love',
   'discomfort',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'surprised',
   'domestic',
   'dramatic',
   'disappointing',
   'beautiful',
   'charming',
   'unusual',
   'attention',
   'detailed',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'dull',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["An Irish male writer narrates in the first person the life of Haoua a 11-12 year old girl in a Niger village. The backdrop is the 1990s a time Niger's government undergoes many changes with corruption, coups and assassinations. The early part of the book deals with the hard life of a villager (especially the women), the total domination of her father, Haoua's determination to do well at school and the good work being done by the local aid worker. The father is fundamentally lazy and spends what little money they have on gambling and the local whores. Poor Haoua's life gets even harder when her mother is sent to the capital for treatment for AIDS. Her father becomes more morose, angrier and frustrated with the loss of the traditional culture and the interference of the educated people who bring change. At the age of 12 Haoua is married off and becomes the third wife of another shiftless, arrogant, dominating and brutal man. There are some brutally sad scenes in the book. And then there are many pages of banality which could have been shortened. There is also an interesting use of letters from Haoua's sponsor family in Ireland where the lives of young girls could not be more different.  Overall it was an insightful and empathetic depiction of what life was for women in Niger.",
   "Welcome to my journey around the world through books, today we are visiting country number 74 Niger with the book Harmattan by Gavin Weston This book is another tough read, emotionally, but it is also an easy read, as pages flow by. Nicely described as you can easily visualise life in the country, dust, heat, lack of running water, difficult transportation, currupton, etc The opposite for the Niger family are the letters from a family in Ireland, sending gifts and you can easily see the difference in their lifestyles. You can really understand the differences with local tribal laws and modern western lifestyle which are often in conflict. Also you learn about the difficulties for women, rape, underage forced marriage, pregnancy, prostitution, sexism, polygamy, hunger.  There are many detailed descriptions which were sometimes over the top, a little unnecessary, but the author has written about some of his personal experiences during his time in Niger.  The life for some people in Niger is very tough, girls married off at a young age. The most interesting part was the detailed journey of Abdel, his friend Archie and Haoua returning from Niamey to their home town in the old Mercedes car.  Gavin Weston, the author, does a good job writing this novel from the point of view of a 12 year old girl.  This novel could be better written, a little shorter, but it covers something many people should know about and hopefully this will end in the near future. I love the cover and the name of the novel though. But it fails to hit the nail, fails on the emotional side of the writing.  Even though I have mentioned that it fails on the emotional side, the ending doesn't, a little shocking and brutal, but this is the best part if you decide to stick with the book.  I am giving this book 3 stars. ",
   "The first half of this book was a pleasant and easy read. Niger girlhood holding much description and cultural, tribal, life task information. Haoua tells us about her daily habits, her pen pals, her contacts within school and primarily of her family and Sushie, a support helper towards her further lessons. But the second half quickly became difficult to read after her Mother's illness drives her into a distant village's hospital. Her brothers, her sister- no friend can eventually and quite quickly prevent her life taking a huge change just days after her 12th birthday. It's an extremely sorrowful book. No reveal here, but there is no joy remaining by the end. And the abrupt ending gave an increased sense of hopelessness, quite beyond a point of that lack. It's 3.5 star but I can not round it upwards when the finale is this void. I try to read at least one book out of ten that are not North American or European dominant location. Out of the numerous African, I think this one was probably one of the most dire I've ever read. Although it didn't contain any horrific genocide or tribal warfare tragedy- this tale was, perhaps, even worse. If that is possible. Yes, probably- because females are half the population. Fathers or males who sell or trade their daughters for brides at young, young ages! That aspect alone would cover tens of thousands of ultimately negated outcomes. Not just to literate capacity, but to any chance for potentials towards health or mental states of competence, not to speak of any level of contentment or happiness. The pen pal letters gave sharp contrast to not only material expectation and use, but also girlhood self-identity inputs to the contrasting lives in Ireland and in Niger.  This is a book written clearly and with lovely description. Heat, sand, aroma- always there. But it is also an extremely sad book.",
   "This novel gave gave me my 100th country on my Round the World trip. I wanted an unusual country for the milestone and this was just the ticket. Set in Niger, it's about the struggles of a 12 yo girl living in a happy family at the outset, but in a male dominated society and with the storm clouds of personal upheaval and civil strife gathering. She is aid sponsored by a family with 12 yo twin girls in Northern Ireland and the girls exchange letters about themselves. This is a great device for comparing Western and African lives, especially what we take for granted. Overall I enjoyed it. It rather tailed off towards the end when I thought the author was searching for a dramatic end to his tale and didn't quite find it.....so only 3 stars rather than 4, but still I would really recommend it - taught me a lot about a very large African country that I suspect most of us know bugger all about.",
   "This book is OK, 2.5 stars rounded down. The plot and arc of the story are good without being anything special. The way the story is told leaves a lot to be desired though. The author seems to go out of his way to emphasise the banal, and commit minimal time and words to the events upon which the story hinges. The characters, with one refreshing exception, are very simple, and remain undeveloped throughout the novel. The plot centres on Haoua, a young girl struggling in rural Niger, kept from the school she loves by household chores forced upon her by her lazy, philandering, gambling, alcoholic father. Haoua's loving mother suffers increasingly from AIDS and soon gets a one-way ticket to Niamey for treatment, and her father's behaviour deteriorates further. After she helps her brother bring their mother's body back to their home village, it is suddenly revealed that Haoua is betrothed to her vile cousin, and the remainder of the book takes place in Niamey where Haoua lives with him and his other unhappy wives. I've already given away most of the character traits in the whole book, and the characters really are that simple. Dad = bad. Moussa = worse. Mum and Grandma = good. Nobody has any nuance, and nobody develops. Worse, there is huge space devoted to entrenching characters' traits that are already well established. The only interesting one is Abdelkrim - the golden child and adored older brother. Despite Abdel falling under the  good guy  category in the author's dichotomous moral universe, he has traded his religion for alcohol, and is wavering from his belief in cultural tradition.  The best part of the book was the small insight into life in rural Niger, a much neglected corner of the literary world. The glimpse is brief and superficial however, and might be better provided by a native Nigerien than an Irish expat writing in the voice of a 12 year old girl.",
   "This book was written to enlighten rather than entertain and it does the job pretty well. In schools it would serve as an Empathy Day read as well as a PSHEE resource for discussions around forced marriage, child pregnancy, sexual and reproductive health. Haoua is a 12-year-old girl, living in a village in Niger in this book. With a sick mother, a difficult father, a brother serving with the army and two siblings at home, we first meet Haoua as a schoolgirl. Her schooling and aid for her father's income comes  via an international aid program: a girl is sponsored for schooling and the parent benefits too. Her life is due to change dramatically on the death of her mother. There are many issues dealt with in the book, from literacy and vaccination, French colonialism and its legacy, Western medicine versus traditional values and beliefs, but most importantly the plight of girls and women, their vulnerability to underage forced marriage, rape, domestic violence, pregnancy, prostitution, STDs and AIDS. The viability of international aid and sponsorship in Africa is also discussed against the background of Niger's fragile and volatile democracy. I found the ending somewhat abrupt, as though the author had run out of steam, which was disappointing, but the book is interesting and informative, although horrifying and disturbing.  Details for the charity FORWARD (The Foundation for Women's Health, Research and Development) are given at the back of the book.",
   "This is the story of Haoua - a 12 year old girl. She lives with her parents and siblings in a remote village in Niger. Her mother soons takes ill and has to be taken away to a hospital for treatment. Haoua's brother and neighbors inform her that their mother is HIV positive and the outcome is going to be grave. In the meantime, Haoua's father decides he wants to take a second wife. The second wife is terrible to Haoua and her siblings - treating them more like servants than children. Haoua's father is gone more than he is at home.  Haoua wants desparately to find her mother and visit her before she dies, so she enlists the help of one of her father's friends to get to her brother and then get to the hospital to see her mother. The travel to and from is treacherous, and when Haoua comes home, she finds out that her father has promised her to her father's friend to be married. At 12 years old, she becomes the wife of a terrible man and begins a completely different path she was hoping for. This book was just okay. It isn't well written, and the story was a bit too long. The characters don't have a lot of depth. It is a very depressing story, that I am sure is true to reality, but still just really, really depressing.",
   'Heart wrenching true!',
   "I was drawn to this book by the cover. The image of a man with a headwrap crouching in the foreground, looking at a scene of camels and what appears to be a young woman standing under a leafless tree against a backdrop of searing orange and yellow light in the desert. Harmattan is a heartbreaking story. It is the story of Haoua Boureima a young girl growing up in the village of Wadata in Niger. In many ways it is a coming of age story. The descriptions of life in Haoua's remote village are vivid and endearing. It is easy to fall in love with this character. She is spirited, intelligent, with a fierce love for her family. Even though she is surrounded by poverty, her life before her twelfth birthday is almost idyllic. Her life is perfect, well almost. She lives in a household with an authoritarian father, who clashes frequently with her brother. Haoua's mother tries to keep the peace but can only do so for so long. Things start changing when the mother is taken ill. We follow the family's struggles as they try to get her treatment. The crushing poverty in Niger which is also representative of so many other places in Africa and around the world is evident. Getting access to the basics of life is an ever present struggle. Gavin Weston's descriptions of Niger really make the place come alive. The beauty of the desert is charming, but life there is punishing. Niger is a country at war with itself. There is civil strife and other forms of social unrest. There is preferential treatment of the  anasaras , who presumably have more money than the common Nigerien. Some are aid workers, others are adventurous tourists. With each passing day, things get progressively worse. Haoua's life is changed forever as everything she holds dear is taken away from her. Her correspondence with her sponsor family the Boyds, who are paying for her education through an aid organisation shows the sharp contrast between life in a developed country and a poor third world country. The story comes to a shattering climax when Haoua is forced to make a grave decision in order to escape from a very abusive situation. This caught me off guard and it's hard to believe that this is the story of a girl of about 13 years of age. Haoua's tormentor gets retribution that is well deserved, but is there hope for her? The novel's ending left me feeling sad and a tad desperate. It ends with a letter to Haoua's sponsors much like it opened with one of these letters. There is a sense that the aid organizations can only do so much to save women and children stuck in desperate situations. The culture of abuse, the objectification, and subjugation of women has to change if the country is to move forward. Haoua's story is that of many girls in Africa, Asia, Latin America and possibly certain parts of the Carribean and North America(think Warren Jeffs). Girls(and boys) who are robbed of their childhood by domestic violence, early marriages, HIV/AIDS and all the other scourges that come from ignorance and the persistence of retrogressive cultures. Gavin Weston's book is a great accomplishment. It is a story that needs to be told and tell it he does, with great compassion. I did find sections of the book abit tedious(the word dry also comes to mind), sometimes he could be overly descriptive and I skimmed and skipped through some sections. That said, it is obvious he  knows  Niger. The text is interspersed with expressions in French and the local language, a refreshing twist. The inclusion of a glossary was very helpful, some books leave this out and it can be very frustrating. Overall a great read and one that comes highly recommended. This is a story you won't soon forget. 4 and a half stars!",
   "The title,    Harmattan    refers to a dusty wind that blows in from the Sahara.  Gavin Weston  defines the term in a frontispiece by saying “Probably from the Arabic haram, a forbidden or accursed thing.” The novel, a miraculous creation, deals with a life that seems “accursed.” I couldn't get the taste of grit out of my mouth and nose when reading this book. There are many things miraculous about Gavin Weston's creation. It is set in an African nation that only makes its way onto travel itineraries of the most adventurous foreigners, and yet Weston, a visual artist, helps the reader clearly see Niger and its life. The hottest country in Africa, straddling the Sahara and spreading along the great Niger river, it is one of the poorest countries in the world. Harmattan  familiarizes you with Niger, but it does not make you comfortable with Niger. In fact, the main character, a young girl called Haouna, takes the discomfort of her life for granted. It's the way life is. While this attitude is partly due to the family's devotion to Islamic religion, it also reflects an acceptance of reality. Not only is Weston showing us Niger as though he were Nigerien, he is writing from the view point of a young girl from a village. In the four years of Haouna's life, we see her lose her childhood and become wise far beyond her years. Weston presents the privileged reader with a world of want without making you want to cover your eyes and stuff your fingers in your ears. Because of the ever-present curiosity and acceptance of Haouna, we learn a lot about Niger and maybe even a little about how to live a good life. This is portion of a review at A Traveler's Library.  Read more:  Book Review: Harmattan  ",
   "Harmattan - the wind of change blows south, clouding the pathway through life of Haoua. Intelligent and optimistic, Haoua's story of her life in a village in Niger is related in her own words, posited with, and punctuated by, letters and gifts from her sponsors, a Northern Irish family.  The knock-on effect of sponsorships organised by international aid agencies not only provides basic comforts and education for the sponsored child; the family benefits also. However, Haoua's hopes for the future are compromised by events within her family and the escalation of unrest in Niger. Contrasts between cultures in the the UK and Niger are increasingly outlines in this vivid, at times heart-rending, narrative, where the protagonist continually struggles against Niger male hegemony, nowhere more apparent than within her own family.  Whilst the Harmattan blows relentlessly onwards, it fails to completely obliterate Haoua's hopes and dreams, and, most importantly of all, her spirit.  This beautiful and authoritatively-written novel subconsciously raises questions about child sponsorship, especially of female children. In these cases, sponsorship stops when the girl marries, irrespective of the fact that this may occur as soon as she reaches puberty, where she may effectively be sold into slavery by her own family, sometimes well down in the matrimonial pecking-order of a polygamous culture where educational measures to prevent diseases such as Aids appear to have failed.  International agencies, whilst carrying out wonderful and vital programmes of health and education, overseeing sponsorships worldwide, are really up against it when they are left helpless by unchanging and relentless cultures, where they have to abandon girls who are forced into marriage, lives of promise unfulfilled.  Cultures which bring obscurity and continue on their unrelenting way, much as the Harmattan itself.",
   "This was a novel that practically jumped off the shelves at me in the library, shouting 'read me, read me!'. I love fiction with a strong sense of place, and books that tackle serious issues in the world today. And the little line on the front stating it was from the publishers of The Garden of Evening Mists simply clinched the deal for me.  Harmattan is the story of a brave young girl, Haoua, growing up in the Republic of Niger. An intelligent and optimistic young girl, she tells her story growing up in a remote village, but with a stable and loving family, and benefiting from sponsors from Ireland who send her letters and gifts and sponsor her schooling.  Shortly before her 12th birthday, storm clouds appear on the horizon, signalling a harmattan, as winds of change blow in to threaten everything she has ever known. Her mother is taken ill, arguments break out in her family and she is forced out of school.  Gavin Weston tackles a lot of serious issues in the book and I found myself reading with a growing sense of unease. But I couldn't stop reading. It's a wonderful novel and the author has clearly done his research.  My only (very slight) criticism is that very occasionally the writing didn't quite flow, and I was suddenly aware I was reading a book rather than being totally swept away by the story, if that makes sense. It wasn't quite up there with Tan Twan Eng or Khaled Hosseini. I'd probably give it a solid 4.5, although I've rounded up because to do anything else would be doing the author a disservice. ",
   "This book is hard. Its descriptive and at times lyrical tone takes us through some fantastic images of dusty Niger through the story of a very wise 12 year old girl. Before our very eyes her story unfolds in a climate of poverty, political strife, rape, lack of woman rights, lack of democracy, lack of choice and forced marriage and sexual intercourse seen as what can only be described as beastly rape. I found that the juxtaposition of the Irish sponsor letters with her own from Niger somehow ridicule our current sponsorship programmes, European naïveté against a backdrop of pain, beatings, sickness and death. I'm sure the author meant well, but to me it does indeed strike a critical blow to our way of thinking/seeing. We send gifts and money and they are sold in the market to pay for a visit to the sick. We talk about green hills and pony rides and holidays in Spain and on the other side health issues, lack of education and no money even to feed properly on a daily basis. Luckily the American nurse who helps the main character's family somehow redeems us Westerners. Every volunteer worker or peace corps heading to Africa should read this book. Against our blue sky views of Africa lies much pain and suffering still. I guess this book humbled me. An eye opener but not for the faint of heart.",
   "I must admit that I was intrigued by the title but because of the subject matter of child marriage in West Africa, I wasn't exactly looking forward to reading this book. It's true that it deals with a dark topic but the book is by no means written in a dark way. As we meet Haoua on the brink of her twelfth birthday, Gavin Weston manages to get inside this young girl's head. Although a fictional story, it's clear that this is based on the author's own experiences and perhaps it's that element which makes this book so haunting. There are tender moments, humourous moments but a sense of pathos throughout as Haoua is powerless to prevent what happens to her. I was somewhat surprised to learn that even if you sponser a child through an agency, this does not protect the child from being forced into marriage and if the child is withdrawn from education then he or she is no longer eligible for the sponsership scheme. It may not be an easy book to read but it is an extremely powerful book. The story of Haoua's journey through the desert was so well written and had me feeling guilty for taking water for granted in the West. It's a novel that will stay with you for a long time to come - one of the most powerful books I have read in ages and deserves more recognition. ",
   "Haoua, a young girl of 12 years suffers a huge amount of loss, yet is also very brave and resilient and can still maintain a sense of humour at times. It is almost as though she is borne back and forth by the wind, from her home in a small village, Wadata, to the capital Niamey. From the parched earth, the camion trails across the desert, the heat, the colours and the smells of West Africa - you can almost shake the sand and brittle earth out of this book as you turn the pages. The dry, arid heat lifts from the writing and water is available to us, the reader, but often not to the people who populate this book. It is sometimes shocking in its rawness, beautiful in its descriptions and remains in the consciousness long after the novel is back on the bookshelf. Do you need any more persuading to buy this book? Then hear what the publishers have to say:  We haven't released anything as hauntingly beautiful since Tan Twan Eng's  The Gift of Rain .",
   "Despite the subject matter being dark and it being obvious from the first page that it will not be a happy story, I found this a compulsive read. The author describes the setting so we can feel the heat and dust, and he is very convincing in telling the story from the viewpoint of a young girl. The letters from the sponsors are particularly good for showing the contrast in lifestyle between Niger and Ireland, and the aid workers are also well portrayed. There is a lot of violence and heartbreak in the story, but also a lot of love and caring people. It is not all darkness and depression. This was a particularly thought provoking book to read if you do sponsor a child, and even more so to read it now whilst girls have been abducted from school in Nigeria. I hope more people read it and that it draws attention to the very real issues of young women's lives in some developing countries.",
   "Harmattan is an emotional and eye-opening look at a culture so different from our own. Author, Gavin Weston, does a great job providing a vivid description of the living conditions found in many areas of Africa. The story is told through the eyes of Haoua, a young girl, living in the village of Wadata in the Republic of Niger. Weston brings you into Haoua's world where she faces poverty, sickness, and oppression. Through letters written to Haoua from her aid sponsors in Ireland, Weston provides the reader with an illustration of what it means to grow up in such dramatically different cultures. Harmattan is a moving experience that will give you a greater appreciation for the privileges of education and equality that women have in our culture.",
   'This book is an eye opening look at the poverty of Niger. It also gives us a not so pretty picture of the life of a young woman and her struggles. Haoua wanted an education and had a sponsor, but due to traditions and family expectations is married off to a much, much older man at age twelve. While her father needs the support of the Vision Corps International, their ideas and goals cause conflict with the old ways and traditions. Life has not been kind to Haoua. There is a glossary of words in the front of the book, however I felt that it was frustrating some words were not listed. I felt this book was well written. This book makes you think about how fortunate we are in this country!! I give this book 4 out of 5 stars.',
   "Like 'We Need New Names' and 'Woman At Point Zero' you keep reading hoping against hope that something will change for the better (and some signs are there) for the protagonist, only for it to be..well I guess that's the point, there is no clear cut fairytale ending and that reflects the reality of girls like Haoua. I was a bit underwhelmed in parts of the book..but that makes it no less gripping and devastating for the reader, knowing that this novel reflects thousands of families' experiences (poverty, child brides, questioning the 'help' of NGOs etc). The plot twists and turns and you think you know what the outcome could be but are surprised every time. It'll be a while before this book leaves my memory.",
   "Could. Not. Put. It. Down. This Gavin Weston fellow is a fine writer who spins a compelling story. I read Peace Corps memoirs on a regular basis and they always revolve around the volunteer. I like the way Weston removes himself from the setting where he has been and narrates from point of a child bride. (Though I notice the saint in the story is the Irish guy.) I love novels that educate but flow like a story should. The author's use of pen pal letters between the Nigerian girl and Katie and Hope in Ireland packs a punch. If I had to criticize, I would pick on the overly speedy downward spiral at the end--I wasn't quite ready for the big downer finale. I feel I owe Gavin Weston thanks for taking me on an interesting journey to Niger, where I have never been.",
   "I felt like a helpless bystander, reading Haoua's story and watching this brave, resourceful, and loving child succumb to the injustice of her world. Gavin Weston's skill at capturing the feel of this world, the texture of Haoua's family life, the friendships, hopes, and sorrows of a girl forced to grow up too fast made me care deeply about the women of Niger. This book is not for the armchair traveller. It's more of an exposé, its fictional heroine a stand-in for all too many child brides in rural West Africa.",
   "An accomplished novel which I read compulsively. The only reason this didn't get 5 stars is because I felt the ending let it down; there was no need for the murder, the episode in prison or the lengthy description of the killing of the goat - the story was more than powerful enough without these elements. There was also perhaps a little more of the sense of foreboding throughout the novel than was really necessary. Having said that, I fully recommend Harmattan. It's a tough read but a very compelling one and it will stay with me for a long time.",
   'Haunting yet beautifully written. The story draws the reader into the life of the key character, into the country it is set, and highlights both the beautiful aspects and the challenges facing young girls the world over. I read this in a day and I laughed, I cried, I remembered why I work on the issue of child marriage, and I was fully engrossed. Well worth a read for anyone who appreciates great writing and great storytelling with an attitude!',
   'I was interested in this book because I had never read a book based in Africa before; for this reason I found the novel interesting and eye opening. However, I found the plot reasonably dull with not a lot happening and there were many moments where I wanted the writer to move onto the next point. Nevertheless this book was a thought-provoking read and I recommend it to anyone interested in the African lifestyle.',
   "I can't say I enjoyed the subject matter of this book but the struggles of a 12 year old girl were those that no one should have to endure - and especially not a 12 year old. Correspondig with a family from Ireland brought the inequalities to the fore but without preaching to the reader. There was a lot of love in the book in unexpected places and a decided lack where it should be.",
   "Beautifully written yet tragic story. Gripped and couldn't put it down. It painted a picture of the simple things in life that bring us pleasure yet also shows how quickly that can be shattered. Everyone must read! Shows how lucky we are! ",
   "This is a true life story of empathy. Definitely not for immatured teenagers because it contains some graphic scenes not suitable for the faint heart. Yes, child bride ceremonies still goes on. Don't just read the book, make a change! ",
   'Enjoyed this book as an insight into living in the poorest area of Niger. It was beautifully portrayed, quite despairing in parts. The contrast between European lifestyle through the pen letters from Ireland and African life was well handled and poignant.',
   "An ill wind blows through Haoua's life, before she even reaches her teens. A poignant tale of loss, neglect, and abuse of human rights, which I've discussed with the author on my website: http://annegoodwin.weebly.com/gavin-w...",
   "Devastating story. This is not an easy read, but you are warned from the very first line. It doesn't get better from there. Interesting insights to life as a girl & women in the Sahel region. Very sad and heartbreaking. Well written and fast paced."],
  '_version_': 1748767598165622784},
 {'id': '31742',
  'author': ['Megan Abbott'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': " Tense, dark, and beautifully written  (Gillian Flynn), this novel of friendship and betrayal from an Edgar Award-winning author is a harrowing glimpse into the dark heart of the all-American girl.,Addy Hanlon has always been Beth Cassidy's best friend and trusted lieutenant. Beth calls the shots and Addy carries them out, a long-established order of things that has brought them to the pinnacle of their high-school careers. Now they're seniors who rule the intensely competitive cheer squad, feared and followed by the other girls—until the young new coach arrives.,Cool and commanding, an emissary from the adult world just beyond their reach, Coach Colette French draws Addy and the other cheerleaders into her life. Only Beth, unsettled by the new regime, remains outside Coach's golden circle, waging a subtle but vicious campaign to regain her position as  top girl —both with the team and with Addy herself.,Then a suicide focuses a police investigation on Coach and her squad. After the first wave of shock and grief, Addy tries to uncover the truth behind the death—and learns that the boundary between loyalty and love can be dangerous terrain.,The raw passions of girlhood are brought to life in this taut, unflinching exploration of friendship, ambition, and power. Writing with  total authority and an almost desperate intensity  (Tom Perrotta), award-winning novelist Megan Abbott delivers a story as unnerving and thrilling as adolescence itself., Spectacular . . . It's ,Heathers, meets ,Fight Club, good. ,—Chelsea Cain, the ,New York Times Book Review",
  'genre': ['Fiction',
   'Young Adult',
   'Mystery',
   'Thriller',
   'Contemporary',
   'Mystery Thriller',
   'Crime',
   'Audiobook',
   'Suspense',
   'Adult'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1342214694l/12982393.jpg',
  'isbn': '316097772',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12982393-dare-me',
  'page_count': '290',
  'rating': 3.22,
  'review_count': 3572,
  'title': 'Dare Me',
  'rating_count': 26161,
  'sensitivity': ['injury',
   'demons',
   'war',
   'divorce',
   'suicide',
   'bullying',
   'murder',
   'drugs',
   'bones',
   'death',
   'starvation',
   'alcohol',
   'blood',
   'cheating'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'unrealistic',
   'cliche',
   'complicated',
   'entertained',
   'rushed',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'promising',
   'edgy',
   'twist',
   'bad',
   'magnificent',
   'dramatic',
   'useless',
   'screaming',
   'captivated',
   'entertaining',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'office',
   'popular',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'smile',
   'charismatic',
   'fantastic',
   'powerful',
   'diversity',
   'modern',
   'worse',
   'average',
   'waste',
   'delivered',
   'best',
   'vivid',
   'shock',
   'disturbing',
   'sweet',
   'rooting',
   'surprised',
   'cynical',
   'visionary',
   'bothered',
   'perfection',
   'attention',
   'rec',
   'hated',
   'twisted',
   'top',
   'rich',
   'delicious',
   'revenge',
   'brutal',
   'hate',
   'remarkable',
   'enjoyable',
   'worthy',
   'formidable',
   'popularity',
   'shocked',
   'worst',
   'flawless',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'realistic',
   'indifferent',
   'great',
   'heart',
   'hooked',
   'downhill',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'mesmerizing',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'sucker',
   'awkward',
   'beautiful',
   'frenemies',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'fierce',
   'struggle',
   'trick',
   'cute',
   'new',
   'dreamed',
   'brilliant',
   'enjoying',
   'spoiled',
   'stupid',
   'bizarre',
   'flaw',
   'poor',
   'mediocre',
   'shocking',
   'damage',
   'interesting',
   'surprising',
   'sensual',
   'different',
   'dumb',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'magical',
   'cringe',
   'outstanding',
   'contemporary',
   'fake',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': ['[      (hide spoiler) ]',
   "    “There's something dangerous about the boredom of teenage girls.” How can I describe this book? Well, if  Bunheads  had a manic, intense and obsessive older sister, then this would definitely be it.  Dare Me  is about teenage girls - and cheerleaders in particular - straddling the line between childhood and the big world of adults but it isn't a tale that conjures up the usual images that high school cheerleading brings with it. This is an intense book about obsession, sexuality and competition. I think back once again to  Bunheads  and how that tells of the dark realities of ballet dancing, it isn't a nice pretty world of tutus and female friendship - you have to be ridiculously self-disciplined and ferociously competitive. That's what these cheerleaders are like, no sitting around being bitchy and doing  Mean Girls  walks through the school, they work hard to perform the routines. I can see in some ways why this book has a low average rating. For one thing, this isn't a nice story, teen girls explore their own sexualities and the mention of underage sex may make some readers uncomfortable. Make no mistake, this may be a book about teenagers but it is very much an adult novel. And, for another thing, the girls develop an extremely unhealthy obsession with weight loss in order to keep trim for the routines; but, as much as I hate the idea of forcing your body into an unnaturally skinny shape, this is the harsh reality for many athletes and/or dancers: hard exercise and hard dieting.  The murder mystery in  Dare Me  is only a small part of the excitement, much more thrilling for me was the focus on teen girls and their obsession with a new leader - in this case, the cheerleading coach. The new coach is beautiful, charismatic and vicious, she challenges them to be better than they are and she eventually becomes the centre of their almost godlike worship. The narrator (Addy) pauses at one point to think back on the very first moment when the coach arrived: Did she look at us that first week and see past the glossed hair and the shiny legs, our glittered brow bones and girl bravado? See past all that to everything beneath, all our miseries, the way we all hated ourselves but much more everyone else? Could she see past all of that to something else, something quivering and real, something poised to be transformed, turned out, made? See that she could make us, stick her hands in our glitter-gritted insides and build us into magnificent teen gladiators? In my opinion, the writing was exactly that perfect magical blend of pretty without being purplish. Abbott doesn't overdo it, she waits for the right moment and then pulls out a little gem like the one above to make sure you're kept in the mood of the novel. I also think I found this novel at the perfect time, it seemed to catch my eye just when I'd been discussing the portrayal of cheerleaders in American movies and books after reading  Storm . Often, cheerleaders are there as male eye-candy or as the bitchy, popular girls to stand as a comparison against the girl next door-type we are supposed to root for. In the UK, not many high schools have cheerleading teams, so opinion of them doesn't tend to stem from high school cliques and my only contact with cheerleaders has been on professional, competing teams. I love the way  Dare Me  completely ignores the stereotype and takes us into a world where it isn't about boyfriends and popularity, it's about fierce competition. Here the cheerleaders are not the centre of popularity but outcasts, living in a sphere separate from the rest of high school reality. They live and breathe the competition. It's intense. It's obsessive. It's a little scary. Most girls have an intense friendship with another girl while growing up, the kind of relationship that comes only through the sharing of childhood secrets, first crushes and hidden fears, through sleepovers where neither of you sleep.  Dare Me  is about these friendships and it's also about the breakdown of them... I don't think it matters how many great friends you make afterwards, there's still always something a little sad about looking back on your first friendship and remembering how you grew apart. In short, I really really enjoyed this book and I would recommend it to everyone who likes something a bit edgy and different.",
   "Sad,ugly characters doing sad,ugly things to one another. This is supposed to be what is in the heart and mind of the all-American girl? I'm not buying that. This is how Addy sees herself: p. 258  You see these glitters and sparkledust and magicks? It's war paint, it's feathers and claws, it's blood sacrifice.   Who the heck is she at war with? Herself? Who are any of them at war with? Why are any of them so angry? If I am expected to care, then explain to me why they are this way. Otherwise don't waste my time. There is no character that you have hopes for or care for or even like, other than perhaps the victim, but even there, what that person was doing was wrong. Who in this whole book actually does right? None of these characters are even fully formed. There is reference made of Beth's issues, but never explained why she behaves as she does, nor why none of these girl's parents seem to give two hoots about their supposedly perfect daughters. The way the girls tear at one another, bully each other and these are supposed to be their friends? I just don't understand what the author was trying to say with this. And the big reveal(I don't mean the reveal of the death which you would think is the big reveal, but the actual big reveal) in the final pages? Yeah, saw that coming a mile away, wondered how long it would take to get there. Who cares? There are some big continuity problems that don't make sense. Coach has her hair in a bob, but then later, only a matter of weeks later, it is described in a ponytail and a French braid. So does she have long hair, long enough for a French braid or ponytail or is it a bob? At one time, Coach is speaking to the girls in the locker room and they begin to scream with joy, jumping on the bleachers. There aren't bleachers in locker rooms.  The worst one is p. 117:  Clattering the phone against the wall, she catapults it down the toilet.  Addy is there and witnesses this happening, the phone down the toilet. The book is told in first person from Addy's viewpoint. So, then why on page 121 does she say   . . . I can't get Beth to return my texts.  Yeah, that would be because her phone went down the toilet four pages ago which Addy witnessed. Stupid. On page 123 Beth asks for her phone back and Addy reminds her that it went down the toilet. So, then why was she texting her two pages ago when she  knows  Beth's phone went down the toilet? Makes absolutely no sense.  Additionally, the description of the victim/suicide, which Addy saw, says the weapon was lying under the leg, but later Addy reads that it was by the victim's head. p. 191 reading from the newspaper article:  Recoil will usually cause a handgun to land behind the body, the source noted, not next to the head where it was found.  Addy is trying hard to figure out what happened and she never thinks to herself that that isn't where the gun was, but was under the leg. She supposedly can't get the image out of her mind, but she doesn't think that this is wrong. So, I'm guessing it is an error on the part of the author. Since all of theses small details do seem to matter to the plot, that is really badly done. Also, what world do these people live in where the high school cheer coach, in her office, at the high school, smokes? And I mean smokes like a flipping chimney. You can't even smoke outside most schools around here, let alone  in the building.   And she gives the girls cigarettes and then serves them alcohol at her home, with no mention whatever that this isn't okay. There is tons of teen drinking, drugging, drinking and driving, drinking while driving, with no mention at all that anyone is at all aware that these things aren't right.  Parents seem to not exist in this world.  Bottom line. One word. Ugly.",
   "I can't even go far enough in this book to find out the premise. I do not even care. This is god awful. This is the worst kind of writing ( edit:  FINE. THE WORST KIND  to me . I suppose you're  allowed  to like it). So many analogies that don't actually even MEAN ANYTHING. You can't just... say things... and call it writing.  wishbone arms?  What do you mean by that? What is that? So, what? They're... all bowed out? They're skinny? They're dried out like after it comes out of a turkey and sits for a while? They're IN THE MIDDLE OF A BIRD?  hair like a long taffy pull  - okay, so... it's sticky hair? It's wide at one end, and then at the other end it's all thinned out and white and stringy? YOU CAN'T JUST SAY WORDS THAT SOUND PRETTY AND  AUTHORY  AND CALL IT WRITING. THEY NEED TO MEAN ACTUAL THINGS. I CANNOT READ THIS BOOK, FOR THE WRITING IS SHIT AND TERRIBLE. ALSO?  pigeon toed like a dancer  PLEASE, SHOW ME A PIGEON TOED DANCER. SHOW ME ONE. WHERE IS YOUR EDITOR, MEGAN ABBOTT? SOMEONE NEEDS TO SAVE YOU FROM YOURSELF. NO. NO. NO. YOU ARE BAD. YOUR BOOK IS BAD. THIS IS ALL VERY VERY VERY VERY BAD. When you use words, you use them to mean things. They need to MEAN THINGS. You can't just use them because they SOUND NICE OR SMART OR ESPECIALLY WRITERLY. That's like using an apostrophe because it LOOKS BETTER THAT WAY.",
   "Dare Me by Megan Abbott is a 2012 Picador Books publication.  After reading  “You Will Know Me” , I knew I wanted to read more Megan Abbott, and I had even picked this book to be the next in line- It just took me a few years to finally get around to it.   Much has changed since this book was published in 2012. I know it was only eight years ago, but while the 'mean girls' trend was successful, and still pops up in various forms of entertainment, its shock value had been greatly reduced.    Still, this book is one dark and twisted ride!  For those of us who lived outside of the exclusive world of cheerleading, it seemed almost like a secret society. The girls are always popular, always attractive. They are perky and enthusiastic, and of course they can perform all those death defying stunts.  Behind the scenes though, there are bruises and punishing workouts… and the threat that hangs over them- the possibility of severe injury.  Cheerleading is like an exclusive enclave, but there is more to it than cute outfits, and the entertaining acrobatics. There is a brutal physical toll- and those stunts can be incredibly dangerous.  But, just like anything else, there is always the possibility of a dark side lurking just beneath the surface.  This novel gives readers a front row seat for an inside peek into what goes on behind that carefully crafted façade in the highly competitive world of cheerleading.  The premise, at least in the beginning, isn't all that shocking, on the surface. We have Beth Cassidy the undisputed leader of the cheerleading squad and her best friend, Addy, cruising along unchallenged, while the other team members acquiesce to her demands and leadership, knowing their place- or else.  Then a new coach takes over and upends Beth's hierarchy….  Immediately it becomes clear that Coach French will require a lot more discipline from the girls, demanding they perform tricky stunts, and announcing there is no longer the need for a team captain. While Beth seemingly takes all this in stride, one senses Beth is biding her time, waiting to pounce, to take her revenge. Coach French will pay a price for her demands and Beth expects Addy to fall in line with her, as usual.  However, Addy is a little bit in awe of Coach French, who inspires her try harder, to question her friendship with Beth. As a result, she soon finds herself caught between loyalty to Beth and her respect for Coach French… Until…  The new coach, who happens to be married, is found in a compromising position with another man. When her new lover allegedly commits suicide, Abby finds herself pulled deeper into the Coach's web as the police begin to question the cause of death. As damning evidence mounts, Abby begins to suspect several people in her inner circle of foul play…  This is a fiendishly entertaining, very clever, and uncomfortably realistic novel. The dangerous machinations and power struggles between these teenage girls almost eclipse the murder mystery and is a constant diversion, blinding you to even more sinister developments. By the end of the book I was on the edge of my seat!  Overall, this is a compelling drama, a taut cat and mouse guessing game, that is highly disturbing and deliciously macabre!!  4 stars",
   "Trigger Warnings: suicide, bulimia, anorexia, alcohol.   I've been wanting to address this one for a while. [disclaimer: I DNF'd the book after Chapter Nine and have only seen a few clips of the TV show on YouTube. So my review is only based on the little bits that I have seen/read/heard.] I really wanted to like this one. I found out about this because I wanted to watch the TV show (the actual TV show, not clips on the Internet) and learned that it was based on a book. So I decided to read the book instead, since I figured that would give me enough of the aesthetic that I was interested in. Also because the show is R-rated and my mom would never let me watch it. And anyway it was cancelled. No. Don't do that to yourself. The first thing that stuck out to me was  the writing . At first, reading through the first two chapters online, I liked the prose and the lyrical feel to the words. I liked the aesthetic it created; the dark glitter and the blood, sweat and tears. And then I started listening to the audiobook, because Libby doesn't have the actual eBook, and it all went downhill from there. There wasn't actually anything wrong with the audiobook, but I just...don't vibe with audio. Even if it's a good reading. I think when I heard someone narrating out loud instead of reading the words for myself, I could just hear the phrases that stuck out. The inner monologues didn't sound like inner monologues because someone was saying them out loud with this tone that I wouldn't have “heard” if I was reading the book. And then of course there was the actual writing style. A few examples: I couldn't find the quote, but I do remember the exact words. “Hair like a long taffy pull.” This, by the way, is what a taffy pull looks like: Have you ever seen hair like that? Because I haven't except for on those fake-ass plastic dolls. And to make things worse, apparently there are different kinds of taffy and one kind is soft and the other kind is hard. And neither of them look like hair. I just...don't get it. Also, these are pieces of candy. But they're also supposed to be long? Because they look like hair? And then another terrible phrase: “...wishbone arms.” Wishbone arms???? Like...this thing??   Are her arms...like really weirdly bent or something? Are they skinny? Are they smaller than my hands? Are they easily broken? I'm genuinely confused. What kind of arms are those? What are these metaphors? “...pigeon-toed like a dancer.” Pigeon-toed? Are her feet turned in? That's what pigeon-toed means. However, as I can speak from experience, dancers walk with their toes pointed out. Or on their toes. Not with a mobile condition. Not like birds. Sure, there are a few awesome quotes and dramatic monologues in the book, but I can't get past these phrases. Especially when they're used to describe body parts. I don't like body part metaphors. They're uncomfortable and awkward and generally very strange and inaccurate. I just don't get it. You can use much more accurate descriptors and still sound lyrical. Making stupid comparisons that obviously make no sense is just...useless. It's not a qualification for authors to have to make idiotic similes and metaphors. What do these people look like, Bratz dolls? “Ages fourteen to eighteen, a girl needs something to kill all that time, that endless itchy waiting, every hour, every day for something — anything — to begin.” ...itchy waiting? Itchy??? Waiting??? Itchy??? What does this mean? Someone please explain to me what an “endless itchy waiting” is. Is it impatience? Are teenage girls too impatient to grow up? Are we trying too hard to be more mature? Because if we are, it's not our fault for thinking we have to. “That's what people never understand: They see us hard little pretty things, brightly lacquered and sequin-studded, and they laugh, they mock, they arouse themselves. They miss everything. You see, these glitters and sparkle dusts and magicks? It's war paint, it's feather and claws, it's blood sacrifice.” I'm going to be honest, that quote there is good. It's amazing, actually. There are so many parts of the book (as far as I read it/listened to it) that could have been this good if they'd actually made sense. Take this quote for example: “My question is this: The New Coach. Did she look at us that first week and see past the glossed hair and shiny legs, our glittered brow bones and girl bravado? See past all that to everything beneath, all our miseries, the way we all hated ourselves but much more everyone else? Could she see past all of that to something else, something quivering and real, something poised to be transformed, turned out, made? See that she could make us, stick her hands in our glitter-gritted insides and build us into magnificent teen gladiators?” It sounds amazing. But it's also metaphorically inconsistent and kinda weird. The first part talks about how Coach French looks past their “glittered exteriors”. But then the last part talks about how she re-forms their “glitter-gritted insides”. How can you be glittered on the outside and have that as a shell, and then have glittery intestines? Are you glittery on the outside or did you swallow too much lipstick? I don't understand this. The girls are supposed to wear their glitter as an exterior and a mask, as said in the beginning. But then apparently their insides are hardened by glitter too? Okay, I'm done with the weird body part confusion. The  plot  was okay, but kind of pointless. It wasn't going anywhere. Addy, the narrator, is immediately taken by Coach French, while her best friend and top bitch Beth is instantly hostile. A small-town squad of cheerleaders who don't actually know how to cheer. The small town is ~shook~ when the new cheer coach arrives. And then there's a suicide.  I'm saving the part that makes me mad for last. I want to take apart the structure first. This was really stereotypical. The cheerleaders are catty, competitive bitches who own the boys of the school. They're blond white party girls who cheer because it's hot. The cheer squad is elite and exclusive and evil. I'd like to point out that the TV show at least included diversity. But apparently this cheer squad can't even cheer. I'm not an athlete and I probably have no room to talk about this, but this group of cheerleaders can't do a basket toss and can barely pull off a pyramid...which I kinda thought were standard cheer moves? It does make sense since they're from a small town with low standards. But of course,  everything  changes when the new coach comes. Suddenly, everyone wants the top spot and they all want to win Regionals and State. There was nothing unique about this except for the overblown drama, which of course happens to Addy and Beth because of course they're the top two cheerleaders. Can you say stereotype? Even that was okay for me. I was still interested. And then I kept going and I just...couldn't. [here comes my rant] The suicide and mental health representation. What the actual fuck? First issue: the suicide felt like it was thrown into the plot to add drama.  Coach French was cheating on her husband with an army sergeant who was an old friend of hers, because of course we needed more clichés. And then Sarge died. Because Coach French cut things off with him. Because she was cheating on her husband. Literally the only reason the suicide happened was because Coach French didn't want to divorce the husband that she hated. Gotta love that logic. This was just a way to make the book more ~interesting~ because oh no he couldn't be with the woman he loved who  lived in the same town as him  so he just shot himself. Moving on, Addy has to hide a bunch of shit from Beth because now the cops are suspicious about the suicide and there's more drama. No. Fuck you. Suicide is not a gimmick or just another plot device for more tension. It's a real problem that hurts millions of people. It's something that people of all ages, genders and races struggle with. It's not a little storyline for a love triangle. It's something that I have dealt with and seeing it airbrushed into this little drama moment is just...disgusting. “Love is a kind of killing, Addy,  she says.  Don't you know that?” More mental health bullshit: anorexia and bulimia.  Coach French tells a girl, without a qualm or hesitation, to “fix her body”. She pinches the girl's waist and says “fix it”. What the fuck? “All those posters and PSAs and health class presentations on body image and the way you can burst blood vessels in your face and rupture your esophagus if you can't stop ramming those sno balls down your throat every night, knowing they'll have to come back up again, you sad weak girl. Because of all this, Coach surely can't tell a girl, a sensitive, body-conscious teenage girl, to get rid of the tender little tuck around her waist, can she? She can. Coach can say anything. And there's Emily, keening over the toilet bowl after practice, begging me to kick her in the gut so she can expel the rest, all that cookie dough and cool ranch, the smell making me roil. Emily, a girl made entirely of donut sticks, cheese powder, and haribo. I kick, I do. She would do the same for me.” IT'S NOT A FUCKING FAVOR. DON'T MAKE IT INTO A GOOD THING. Bulimia is a serious problem that is not just a little trend that teenage girls pull off so they can look prettier. It's a mental health disorder that can seriously damage someone's body, and an authority figure  encouraging a girl  to force herself to throw up her food and go on a liquid diet just for a cheerleading competition is sick. It's not just this one girl. Almost all of the girls on the squad are pulled into this. They stop eating, exercise for hours, make themselves tiny. One of them is described as a “pale eyelash of a girl” (more body part metaphors!) which is… You know. Totally healthy. Absolutely healthy that she just threw up after eating half a protein bar. Totally fine that she just almost passed out because she didn't drink her lunch carrot juice. “So I start with the egg whites and the almonds and the spinach, like wilting lily pads between my teeth. It's so boring, like not eating at all because you don't feel the sweet grit on your tongue all day and night, singing on the edge of your teeth. But my body is tight-tight-tightening. Hard and smooth, like hers. Waist pared down to nothing, like hers.” When I read this book, I was in fact dealing with anorexia. And the way this idolized dieting, losing inches off my waist, eating nothing but “weight-loss” foods and spending hours working out...that was harmful. It put me in the wrong mindset.  This romanticized bulimia and anorexia, because it was just  so worth it  to have a tiny waist. So no, I didn't finish this book. I don't want to, either. The whole thing was just girl-on-girl hate, body dysmorphia, airbrushed mental disorders, and glorified self-harm. The plot had nothing in it, the characters were literal plastic dolls, and the content of this book was disgusting, triggering, and downright insensitive. I really wanted to like this book. I actually convinced myself that I did for a while. But now that my mental health has...changed, I can definitely tell that this book is not good. At all. It's too problematic and insensitive. I came in looking for a dark aesthetic thriller with good tension and compelling characters. What I got was romanticization of eating disorders and suicide. Stay away from this kind of content.",
   "Beth and Addy have been the top dogs on the cheerleading squad for years. When a new coach comes in and upsets the apple cart, how will Beth react to her role being usurped? And what dark things are waiting in the wings for Coach French? Wow. I've said it before but Megan Abbott makes the politics of teenage girls look as brutal as the Game of Thrones. Dare Me is a look behind the curtain at what makes teenage girls tick, specifically the ones motivated to be cheerleaders. Eating disorders, cattiness, the whole nine yards. When the Coach arrives and usurps Beth's role in the squad, things quickly start falling apart. Beth goes on a calculated rampage, the Coach's unhappiness is exposed, and Addy is stuck trying to hold everything together. You wouldn't think a tale about cheerleaders would be this dark but the girls are like a pack of wolves, pouncing on any pack member that makes a misstep. Beth was pretty slick and would make a great femme fatale once she gets a few more years on her. Coach French seemed like she became a coach because it was the only part of her life she had control over. Addy's struggle between her loyalty to Beth and her new relationship with the coach kept the plot rocketing forward. There's a twist near the halfway point that sends the book veering into standard noir territory. While I was pretty sure who the culprit was, Megan had me off on tangents a few times. I had an inkling of how the book was going to end but that did little to lessen the impact. It still hit like a cheerleader's head on an unpadded gym floor. As of this writing, I've read five or six Megan Abbott books and this one was my favorite yet. Five out of five stars.",
   "update: APPARENTLY THIS IS GETTING A TV SHOW BUT I WAS NEVER NOTIFIED??     “There's something dangerous about the boredom of teenage girls.”     This is... a weird book. And it's definitely going to be  polarizing.  But holy shit, for me, this book was    fantastic   . It's not necessarily a book you'll enjoy, but oh my god, does it stay with you - this book along with Abigail Haas'  Dangerous Girls  got me interested in the suspense genre. It has been over a year now since I read this book and it still haunts me.  Dare Me  is about obsession.  It's about dedication and coming-of-age in a brutal world. It's about power plays and hatred. It's about the drive for competition, and how boyfriends and dating play into that competition in the teen world.  It's about the twisted kind of love . The writing is gorgeous without being purple-prosey. All of this incorporates itself into a brilliantly suspenseful novel that is impossible to put down. I read this book in midwinter at Lake Tahoe, yet the atmosphere of this book drew me in so well that I was totally lost.  Megan Abbott's mood and tonal shifts are genuinely remarkable, keeping you on the edge of your seat.  I love mood books ; I love books that make me feel, even when I don't know what's happening. This book is confusing and screwed-up and flat-out weird, but it's utterly amazing. The ending is almost unclear - I don't think I liked it when I first read this. But in hindsight, I think  the ambiguous and odd ending worked perfectly . It's the reason this book still stands tall in my memories, and always will.  Beth and Addy are both deeply awful, and yet I sympathized with their  complex characters  completely - even when they're dislikable, they interest you, keep you reading. The relationship between Beth and Addy is deeply messed up by the forces of competition and codependency and yet they remain so interesting to read about.     We're all the same under our skin, aren't we? We're all wanting things we don't understand. Things we can't even name. The yearning so deep, like pinions over our hearts.     There's something I wanted to talk about in terms of queerness in this book. In  Dare Me , relationships between men and women are a weapon, used for power and for sex. The only relationships that do  not  revolve around sex are those between women: Addy and Coach, and Addy and Beth. Yet both of these relationships are influenced by attraction, from the one-sided attraction between Addy and Coach to the two-sided attraction between Addy and Beth. It is simply that these are the only relationships into which the characters pour real emotion and genuine love. This gets a high recommendation from me to anyone who enjoys suspense novels and ambiguity. Blog  |  Goodreads  |  Twitter  |  Instagram  |  Youtube",
   "First Read: November 2016, Rating: 5/5 stars Second Read: April 2020, Rating: 4.5/5 stars Raw, gritty and completely unforgiving. Abbott exposes the teenage girl populace in a harsh and exposing light in this unputdownable dark contemporary! Best friends Beth Cassidy and Addy Hanlon are the Queen Bee and Lieutenant of their high-school. Their status as cheerleaders means no more to them than to ensure that all eyes are turned their way as they parade the hallways in packs of short skirts and flipping ponytails. That is, until a new coach arrives and is determined to make the cheer pack sleeker, slimmer and more daring. On their way to perfection, every flaw is uncovered, every trick perfected and not all friendships will last this test of endurance. Abbott is an absolute master at exposing the nuances of the politics that govern the lives of teenage girls. Her characters might not represent the norm, but they act as exaggerated spokespersons for what lies beneath the facade of bored indifference, perfectly glossed lips and exposed lengths of legs that categorize these girls. More fierce than war generals, more determined than Olympic athletes and more cut-throat than criminals, these girls maintain the facade of solidarity with simpering smiles whilst dually knifing each other in the back at every opportunity.  I flew through this book in less than a day and found absolutely every page compelling and enthralling. Abbott made her pack of glossy cheerleaders far more than their image and her quest for raw truth made their stories intrepid and valiant. I found no inherent good in the story and yet found myself rooting for each of them, despite their immoral, and often illegal, antics. This voyeuristic insight into the elite cheer pack made me dually want to relive my teenage years as one of their clique and glad that I stayed clear from this dog-eat-dog form of friendship. This tale proves that getting to the top of the pyramid isn't the hardest part, but staying there is. During my second reading I found this no less compelling but a little more removed from the teen, school drama.",
   "3.75 Stars* (rounded up) Yowza! This is Mean Girls at its Very Best and when its Wicked, it's Totally Wicked. And when it's Trashy, it's Totally Trashy. And in those MOMENTS? It is HIGHLY ENTERTAINING. Dare Me by Megan Abbot is High School Cheerleaders' version of Mean Girls with a little mystery thrown in. It's entertaining and campy and it almost makes me want to be back in High School. To be teased mercilessly.  Not. . And I swear the book didn't inspire me to want to go out and buy pom poms either... (I'm serious...  Really! ). This is the story of cheerleaders and best friends, Addy Hanson and Beth Cassidy. Beth has always been the Captain, and Addy, her lieutenant. Together, they are fierce! Beth has always been as cold as ICE and no one crosses her and no one can get to her, no one except Addy. Then everything changes for Beth, as Addy begins looking up to the new Coach, Ms. Colette French, and not Beth. Tempers rise between everyone involved and the games begin (and I don't mean football games). To make matters worse, something goes awry for Addy and for Coach and its something bad with a capital B. Many secrets are kept and Beth is the middle of all of it and is loving every single second of it - because Beth is bad with a capital B, too. Dare Me is a wickedly entertaining and totally sophomoric novel that was enjoyable and very fast-paced. I listened to this audiobook and found the narrator to be superb. Megan Abbot did a splendid job of creating real characters whose pain I felt (and considering most of them were in High School and I am not), I thought that was a nice feat. If you are looking for an entertaining though somewhat campy YA novel, give this a go. ** I must provide a disclaimer however that my enjoyment of this novel (which includes incidents of teenage bullying) does not mean that I, in anyway way, condone that behavior.  Published on Goodreads and Amazon on 5.17.17.",
   '[fucking the sarge.  (hide spoiler) ]',
   "This book focused on cheerleading which reminds me of the cheerleading movie called Bring It On. At first the story is fast paced and then there were weird vibes with Addy and her thoughts/conversations on/with Beth, Sarge, Coach, and Casey. This story seems to be about friendship but somehow the relationship is tumultuous. I do like the puzzles Addy was to solve: the lies and the sprinkles of information from Matt. \u2029This book started with a prologue told in the first person point of view following Addy, 16. It's 2am, someone asked Addy to come. Addy was reluctant when she looked at something on the floor. Then the story began 4 months ago as Addy got ready for cheerleading. At football season, the cheerleaders have a new coach, Coach French, 27. This coach is unlike any coach the girls had before. Addy is Beth's sidekick/lieutenant and Beth always do what pleases her. With Coach around, Beth has a competitor. The story is timeline by counting down to the final game where the cheerleaders will do their big stunt. Except around the final game, an arrest is made for someone's death. \u2029Dare Me is cheerleading and mean girls who defy their parents and do underage drinking and drugs. I just have little tolerance for characters intentionally bringing trouble upon themselves or purposely do dumb things. Therefore, Beth is my least favorite character. At first I like Addy but later I don't because she's mean too. The Coach thinks their parents don't care for them but it's not true because Addy's dad cared when Addy said he waited up for her. Coach is no better complaining about how the girls' parents don't care and it's her job to care but she served them alcohol when they're together. The crime and suspense is good. I like not knowing who to trust and how little by little it all comes out. xoxo, Jasmine at  www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com  for more details  Many thanks to Little Brown for the opportunity to read and review.",
   "Previously I'd read two Megan Abbott books,  The Song is You  and  Queenpin . Both were razor sharp noirs set in the past with cynical hustlers smoking cigarettes and drinking whiskey and basically behaving like the type of people who belong in a black and white movie. This book is about cheerleaders in a modern high school. It's not as different as you'd like to think. Addy has long been the best friend and lieutenant to Beth, the captain of their cheerleading squad. Beth is smart but self centered with a mean streak and a knack for the complete social destruction of anyone who irritates her. When a new young coach inspires the squad and pushes them to new levels, a contest of wills between Beth and Coach ensues. When Addy begins to side with the Coach, Beth steps up her efforts to reclaim the top spot and tries to use a secret against Coach while Addy scrambles to try and limit the damage. When a tragedy occurs, Beth gleefully begins a campaign of psychological warfare against Addy to convince her that Coach isn't what she appears to be. Megan Abbott's writing continues to be among some of the best stuff I'm reading these days and she does some outstanding work in two areas in this book. First is the way that she puts the reader inside the head of Addy and makes even a bitter and grumpy middle aged man like myself understand and empathize with a teenage cheerleader.  Second is how she builds up the world of cheerleading with the constant practice of stunts that can cause serious injury if they go wrong. The work and pain these young women go through to excel at what they do seems as serious and intense as an NFL training camp.  I didn't enjoy this quite as much as her other two books, but it's still a four star read.",
   "Dare Me is fun, y'all. A great escape. Indulgent. I am planning to watch the series now because I finished this juicy book last night. It's been called a cross between Heathers and Fight Club, and I can definitely see why. I was entertained, distracted from the world around me, and a bit wicked for enjoying this one so much?! I received a gifted copy. All opinions are my own. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog:  www.jennifertarheelreader.com  and instagram:  www.instagram.com/tarheelreader  ",
   "I know absolutely nothing about teenage girls--something that, sadly, was also true back when I was a teenage boy. Megan Abbott, on the other hand, either has a very good memory or has done prodigious research into the subject. Actually, I suspect that it's a combination of both, and the result is her excellent new novel,  Dare Me .  The book is a meditation on the nature of friendship, love, competition, betrayal and young girls coming of age, set in the world of cheerleading. In it, Abbott exposes the dark underside of the cheerleaders' world and describes a culture that would have me quaking in my boots if I had a teenage daughter. Beth Cassidy and Addy Hanlon have been best friends since childhood. Beth is the tough-as-nails, natural born leader and Addy is her able lieutenant. They are both tanned and beautiful and are the stars of their high school's cheerleader squad.  Until now, this has required little more effort than the occasional lackadaisical practice, maintaining their hairdos and shaking their assets come game time. But suddenly there's a new sheriff in town or, actually, a new coach who takes cheerleading seriously as an athletic competition. The coach, Colette French, is not that much older than the girls themselves, but she drills them like Marines and whips their bodies and their attitudes into shape. Before long, they're doing routines they never would have dreamed of before. Most of the girls, Addy included, buy into the program enthusiastically. But Beth is not happy. Coach or no coach, she has always been the team's natural leader, and she detests even the suggestion that she might be eclipsed by the new coach. She is particularly unhappy about the fact that in her view, Addy has turned against her by aligning herself with the coach, and Beth is not a girl who will take this lying down. The coach is a woman with troubles of her own, which soon bubble to the surface with dire consequences for the young charges she has drawn into her orbit. To say anymore would probably be to say too much. Suffice it to say that these characters are fully drawn, eminently believable, and may of them are scary as hell. But watching the story unfold is mesmerizing--you cannot turn away. Megan Abbott has delivered another very good book that will linger a long time in the reader's memory.",
   "There's something dangerous about the boredom of teenage girls. The thought of getting older is something that scares the bejesus out of me every day I look in the mirror and see a new gray hair or small wrinkle, but there is noooooo amount of money in the world that would make me want to be a teenage girl in today's society. Girls have found all sorts of new ways to be vicious to one another, high schools have become war zones, and the pressure to be thin, beautiful, and perfect, has surpassed anything I could have imagined as a teenager.  Megan Abbott's novel isn't just about average  mean girls . DARE ME is set in the back-stabbing and competitive world of American high-school cheerleading...and believe me there are nooooo spirit fingers here... DARE ME is narrated by 16-year-old Adelaine (Addy)- who at the start of the story is best  frenemies  and lieutenant to Beth- the manipulative and emotionally abusive captain of their school's cheerleading squad- until the arrival of an attractive and exciting new coach- Colette French. As Beth starts losing control of Addy and the rest of her team- coach becomes  the enemy  who must be destroyed. This is NOT the Rah Rah cheerleading I remember from my high school, and DARE ME is NOT the YA reading I was doing in my teenage years. I am not a parent- if I was I would cringe a little if I saw this book on my teenager's night stand- but as an adult I loved it. It has been billed as Fight Club for girls...but it reminded me more of Heathers meets Bring It On.  Mystery, secrets, extreme paranoia, sex, loss of innocence, diet pill popping, smoothies and murder. Once you start reading, it is hard to put down.",
   "Wow. This was just really, really bad. I knew 10 pages in, that this book, definately wasn't for me, but I hate not finishing a book, no matter how godawful it is {example: 50 Shades of  shite  Grey}. Yes the author throws in some typical high school speech {see beyotch etc.} to show the readers that she's down with the lingo, but the majority of the dialogue between the characters was ridiculous. People do not speak like that.  The suns down and the moons pretty,  she says, her voice hushed.  It's time to ramble.  <--- Just one inane description. Then there's the lust for Coach. Why these girls fawn over her was never justified in my eyes. She refused to divulge her private life, therefore she became a mysterious enigma? She told them to 'tighten up' their bodies, they fall down worshipping her. All except one - Beth - who sees right through her. Good woman Beth. Well, she's actually quite psychotic.  Basically that's it. Oh and a suicide thrown in for good measure. And a hint of pseudo lesbianism thrown about which doesn't even materialize into anything, but constantly lingers.  Unfortunately it just didn't do anything for me. ",
   "I've read gobs of creepy books and watched heaps of horror movies, but nothing can run a spike of scare through me quite like a gaggle of teen girls. You knew these things already, didn't you? Or at least suspected -- the vicious, petty jealousies, the unchecked hormones, the cutting intelligence harnessed to manipulate and intimidate, the capricious cruelty, the fathomless insecurities, the abiding self-loathing ... need I go on?  Teen girls are a tribe unto themselves, with their own language, dress code, rules of behavior, and very specific rites of passage. Every day is Lord of the Flies day for teen girls. They don't need no stinking island to channel their inner savage, alright? Stephen King knew this when he has Carrie White cornered and bleeding from her first menses in the girl's high school locker room while her classmates pelt her with sanitary napkins and tampons chanting:  Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up!   In  Dare Me , Megan Abbott takes you  deep  into teen girl territory, so deep you will flinch, and grimace and squirm at all the things she's going to show you. It's a sordid voyeurism that will have you screaming for more. This isn't a darkly humorous satire a la  Mean Girls  or  Heathers . Not at all. This is a sober, penetrating look at the inner lives of a group of cheerleaders -- their insular, isolated existence as members of a tribe within a tribe. Their rituals include starvation diets and brute, physical demands requiring near constant pain and risk of serious injury.  Into a volatile balance of power comes new Head Coach Collette French. Loyalties shift, boundaries are tested, trusts will be broken and amidst all the angst and perpetual drama, a body will be discovered. For Ms. Abbott isn't just writing cheerleaders, she's writing  noir  cheerleaders, with a rich cast of characters each vying for the role of femme fatale.  This is a story icky in parts dealing as it does in burgeoning, pubescent sexuality, obsessions and desires. For all of that it is bloody  fascinating  featuring an engaging plot that Abbott has exquisitely paced. I read this in one sitting. I was violently pulled into this world and held captive the entire time. This isn't a happy story. You've been warned.   ",
   "I'm having a heck of a time trying to review this one! Megan Abbott's writing is brilliant, and she can get into the psyche of teenage girls like nothing I've ever read. While her writing is as amazing as ever here, the plot didn't thrill me. This story goes into the world of high school cheerleading, and holy shit was I ever surprised! This is not the cheerleading I know, where girls ruffle pom-poms and smile. No, this involves dare devil stunts where injuries can be fatal.  Abbott writes:   Now we are learning the pyramid isn't about girls climbing on top of one another and staying still. It's about breathing something to life. Together. Each of us a singular organ feeding the other organs, creating something larger. We are learning that our bodies are our own and they are the squads and that is all. We are learning that we are the only people in the world when we are on the floor. We will wear our smiles tight and meaningless, but inside, all we care for is stunt. Stunt is all.   She goes on to describe the relationships between the girls, and in particular the squad leader and her best friend, also on the squad. These relationships are all consuming, fierce, unnerving. The squad leader is the top of the food chain. She calls all the shots, who's in, who's out. She says jump and they ask off which bridge. I found this amazing, and how Abbott describes these relationships blew my socks off! Okay, now plot. Well, here we have a murder committed that may involve the coach. The squad leader and her best friend are at odds, jealousy is rampant between them as the best friend and coach get to close. While the writing nails the deep emotions between all three, I found the story a little far fetched. It did show me how boundaries get crossed between coaches and their  girls,  but I wasn't thrilled with how a murder became the driving force. I've always been one for great writing though, so while this may not be my favorite Abbott book, I'll be sure to read more of her!",
   "This is my second Megan Abbott, and it won't be my last. There's something about her razor-sharp writing that is so damn compelling and interesting that goes well beyond the subject matter. I'll be honest. I don't care too much about cheerleaders and cheerleading, but when you mix a near Machiavellian cruelty to the scene, with all the world-weariness of 14 year old girls, and write the living fuck out of it, it becomes mesmerizing.  A lot of people say that Abbott writes Noir, and it is definitely her writing's strength. Sharp lines, stark definitions everywhere, and a deep undercurrent running through the tale. Was it suicide? Was it murder? How is Beth involved? Is the Coach guilty? It's all questions and blinders, and it never sinks into a normal murder mystery. Our narrator Addy so well-crafted that I doubt I'll ever forget her.  Everyone's complex. It's hard not to make a serious connection to Lolita, from the cover of the novel to the layers and layers of personality within Addy and all the versions of Beth and Coach French to which we are treated. It's a mystery. But it's also the heaviest novel about cheerleading I've ever read. Indeed, that I ever want to read. The competition is there, of course, but the way all these girls get prepared as if for war, punishing themselves far worse than they punish each other, is just as bad as any of the most intense sports-competition stories I've ever read/watched/or experienced. The microcosm is damn oppressive. It's easy to imagine transporting these girls to an upscale brothel in the 50's under the complex and caring touch of a well-meaning madam, or cutting off a tit to be that most excellent archer of Amazonian fame for the glory of Diana. *sigh* Disturbing. Glorious. The fact is, the writing is so damn good that I fell into the story despite myself. It's truly brilliant in that respect, but I still don't care for the actual subject. My Bad!",
   "I wrote this review while playing Nancy Sinatra's  Bang Bang (My Baby Shot Me Down).  There are reasons why that's appropriate, but that might delve into spoilerific territory, so I digress. Forewarning: this will be a long review, possibly one breaking the character limit. That might be surprising considering I'm giving this (close to) 5-stars. In the aftermath of reading this, I will definitely be reading more of Megan Abbott's work. No question. Short version of this review: I freaking loved this book. Problematic as all heck - I realize - but that was a ride I would want to ride again, over and over. Willingly.  The long version of this review gets a bit more complicated because I'll acknowledge this book has significant caveats and (notably) won't strike everyone the same way. It is entirely a love it or hate it read, and it's problematic to say the least (understatement). I understand why, and I'd understand anyone's hesitation to pick it up. I should also mention that while this features a teen protagonist, this is very much an adult book. (I definitely think there are teens who would appreciate this read for what it offers. Considering the content, though, it's a hard bargain. Discretion advised.)  I'd honestly say this is one to give a try at the very least because...dude. Let's have a conversation.  Dare Me  was yet another library recommended read that I randomly picked up in the context of recs made in the scheme of  Gone Girl.  As you guys know, I take comparison reads very lightly. More often than not, they're not always accurate and can set up unrealistic expectations. In the aftermath of reading this, I somewhat see why the rec came about.  For one, it's a very dark read - the tension in  Dare Me  is so thick wading through it, you find yourself lost in its pull of the trainwreck variety. I could not stop reading this book once I started. Even putting it down, I wanted to pick it back up again because I had no idea where the heck it was going. It has more than its fair share of twists and turns.  Another similarity: the characters are supremely unlikable.  I didn't like a single character in this book, not even the protagonist Addy (who arguably has some sympathetic qualities, she's quite the anti-hero). So you might wonder why I give close to five stars for a book that's essentially about a bunch of pretentious, self-absorbed teenage cheerleaders abusing Adderall and doing everything they can to maintain slim figures and championing unhealthy eating habits and eating disorder behavior?  Maybe it's because I'm a sucker for well-developed, unlikable characters playing head games with each other and exploiting/competing in positions of power, which is pretty much what happens in this book.   Almost to the point it could be Shakespearean. Think Othello being manipulated by Iago when it comes to O's relationship with Desdemona. Except this isn't a romance or really something that's heavily suggestive in that scheme. Not in the least (though you could fill a bucket with the sexual tension in this book).  Relationships are manipulated and manipulative. Every single character here has their own aims and desires and they'll do whatever they feel necessary to get what they want. Or protect whom they need to in some cases. I'm still shocked that this book pulled me in as much as it did. I had no idea what I was signing up for when I picked up this book and I ended up completely blindsided for the experience. The story on its surface seems like a stereotypical one: you have a cheerleading team that's led by a very strong social butterfly (Beth) for a team captain and her best friend (Addy). Addy is the narrator for this book, and by every measure of description - Addy and Beth's relationship is inseparable. Beth's the queen, Addy's her partner in crime. Their relationship is a formidable one and not necessarily challenged by their peers. At least until a new coach comes into town. The new coach is a young, seemingly powerful woman that gradually wins over the team's affections with her no-nonsense approach to the drills and performances of the team. But it's also her lax demeanor that draws the girls in and allows them to bond with her. Abbott's descriptions for the performances by the team unfolds like watching a dance - I loved the descriptions here, even if sometimes they seem a bit superfluous.  My enjoyment's probably heightened there because: 1. The descriptions seem so vivid that they're artistically drawn in the prose. 2. I'm a graduate in exercise science so the attention given to their bodies and movements really captivated me. I haven't seen that in a lot of texts like this and Abbott portrays it very well. 3. The portrayal syncs truthfully with the character voice, for better and worse. Addy's character matches her voice for depictions of events and performances in her witness - she's a spoiled teenage girl with a dark streak and surrounded by other characters who are just as flawed as she is. This is especially well noted in the audio reading of this book. Addy's reflections are indulging for senses and symbolic parallels, yet flawed at the same time. So it worked for me. The coach seems to win everyone over, except Beth. Beth hates the coach with a furious passion, one Addy can't quite put her finger on for certain measures. At first Addy thinks it's because Beth has lost her former power as the team's captain, but it becomes more as Beth's hatred becomes personal, borderline obsessive over the Coach's life and secrets that are kept between the girls. Then the unthinkable happens to someone in their circles, and it throws the coach and the girls into a tailspin. Addy finds herself front and center in the midst of a game of secrets, lies, and manipulations. She's a puppet trying to find out who's pulling her strings and why. I LOVED that aspect of it. The story unfolds like a whodunit mystery but at the same time a dark series of power struggles and sensual tension that builds with a swelling crest up until the  a-ha  moment comes about. I didn't know what route it would go until the last possible point, and it made sense as far as the lying and manipulations were concerned on behalf of multiple parties. Addy's relationship with the coach is palpable, and the Coach, while she seems admirable on the surface, ends up not being much more mature than the students she teaches as her flaws come to the forefront, and she has her own motivations to lie. I saw that as intentional and not a flaw of the text itself. Whether the Coach's motivations are to protect herself or others remains to be seen, and Addy's left to the task of uncovering that on her own. Of course, Addy's pretty much a pawn in some measures, because she's played multiple times between people. It's also revealed that Addy knows Beth is far more twisted for intentions than one would think, to a point that Beth has this hate/love game that she makes Abby play - one piece at a time.  While this read might seem cliche on the surface, it's really many layers of a drama built on top of an established stereotype, to be honest. It doesn't mince the fact that these characters are flawed, nor does it push the cast as worthy of emulation - rather stuck in their own delusions. Addy, Beth, and the rest of the crew are all flawed, and standing high on a precipice of denial, indulgence and power, with an event that rattles and threatens to break their foundation. (And I like the parallel that's drawn to the cheerleading routines with this aspect.) It's certainly seen (and felt) with respect to Addy's character, as she tries to navigate the confusion and conflict she feels over events even while she's a character with her own twisted justifications for things. She's also more than willing to hurt whom she has to in order to seek the answers she wants. And OMG, Beth. Can we talk about Beth? She's probably the character that's love to hate here. She's tugging strings and she doesn't care, but the text manages to give her human qualities in the scheme of things, even if you're not sure why she does the things she does up until a certain point, especially when Addy starts revealing things from their past that suggests her own callousness that could run parallel with Beth's manipulations. The two are really more similar than you'd think from the beginning of the work, and neither one of them are necessarily more  moral  than the other. It's just a matter of seeing why they act and react the way they do. Even then, there are points where it leaves you guessing because you're not exactly sure why their loyalties still lie to each other, but yet they're still willing to hurt and manipulate their close relationship. It's a power play, and the fact it's done by these teenage girls who have such social standing is scary enough to think about, especially when it comes to their coach and what they know and how they choose to dance with that information. There's some suspension of disbelief to be had, and I think Abbott works it well - but for some readers, that suspension may not be enough to drive some of the strong symbolic qualities and overarching themes this work has to offer. And that's a shame, because when it hits the ground running, it does remarkably well. I saw it, and I loved it.  The ending of the work is hit or miss for events. I thought it was a bit quick for the resolution and even then, there's not a fulfilling sense of vindication for the wrongs that are committed. Then again, I don't think it was meant to be that kind of story, as this cast of fools pretty much end up with a queen and you're watching how all of them collide and function in this bubble, along with the  why . In the end,  Dare Me  answers the question of how far its cast will go to be on top, or risk losing it all, even if it has deadly consequences. I thought the book was brilliant for what it chose to show, with some rough edges and suspensions to take into consideration. I would read this again, readily, for how dark, twisted, and vivid the presentation came across in Abbott's narrative. Overall score: 4.5/5 stars",
   "Ugh. This one left me so frustrated.  The storyline centers around the struggles of a teenage cheerleader who gets sucked into the warped world of her adult coach's sordid love triangle, all while battling the usual teenage issues. The description on the back of the book is much better and sounded really promising, so I snatched this one up. First things first. I went into this with a critical eye because I was a competition cheerleader for years. When Abbott first describes the girls, she basically says they do nothing but shake their asses. Yet, magically, after a few weeks with Coach, they are an award-caliber team who can stunt on an expert level. Yeah, that doesn't happen. Second, the language just killed me. I work with teenagers all day, every day. The girls in this book do not sound like any teenagers I've ever encountered, unless they were teleported from some bizarre Clockwork Orange lingo land. Some of the random slang made me wonder if I was on drugs myself.  The characters started out decently, at least in concept, but I really had no connection to any of them. Even Addy, who is the freaking narrator, was an enigma wrapped in a mystery. As Beth points out at one point, Addy doesn't even know herself. And, lest you get confused, I don't mean that in a good,  Who am I?  YA thematic way. I mean, literally, Addy has no clue who the hell she is, why she's doing any of the things she gets involved in, why she likes anyone at all in the book (when they're all so unlikeable) or basically why she's even alive at this point.  Fourth, I really thought I might have an aneurysm when Coach invited the girls over (all of whom are inexplicably in love with Coach in a psuedo-lesbian manner, even though Coach is clearly emotionally abusive to them) and everyone just breaks out the white wine like it's nothing. I was also sick of Coach's White Whine through out the novel. WE GET IT. You've got an boring marriage. You've got a husband that would work himself to the bone to give you everything you've ever wanted. Talk about first world problems. Finally, because I realize this is getting long, what is left unsaid int his novel is not at all mysterious and thought-provoking. It's just poor storytelling. The Coach-girls relationship makes no sense and was rushed and underdeveloped. The weird obsession Addy has with Matt French seemed like it was going towards some kind of betrayal/affair angle, but went nowhere. The murder went nowhere (and kind of seemed like a rip off of the movie Unfaithful). All of the sudden, Beth, who had been painted as an unconscionable sociopath throughout the novel, is meant to appear sympathetic as she  forces' Addy to confront herself and her inner demons. And at one point the girls had a little lesbian tussle in the woods, which was apparently a BIGFUCKINGDEAL, even though Abbott couldn't be bothered describing it or the girls' feelings about it beyond some vague, surface imagery.  Had the ending not been so terrible, I would have rated it a little higher. I did love the concept and I loved the way Abbott doesn't shy away from the cruelty behind girl relationships. However, it seemed like Abbott was either confused or just gave up at one point and phoned it in from there.",
   "Find all of my reviews at:  http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/    Cheer taught me to trust my girls to catch me when I fall. It showed me how to be a leader.    I read  Dare Me  nearly five years ago and had a mediocre reaction to it. Then the previews for the television series started appearing and I realized that I remembered hardly anything aside from (a) cheerleaders that were (b) Megan Abbott's signature mean girl type of teen. Old Lady Brain. So debilitating : ( I set the DVR up to record the show and then by sheer luck was offered a chance for a review copy of the book and decided to give it another go. Well . . . . . .     Or, at minimum, a wrongreader because holy crap. WTF was I expecting the first time around? I can't imagine it going any other direction and it was goooooooood. Like thank God I don't have daughters like this trainwreck type of good, but oh so good. The TV version was highly disturbing as well. And only one episode in!  Recommended to those who don't like their pubescent leads full of sugar and spice and everything nice and their cheerleading . . . . .      Copy provided by Little Brown in exchange for an honest review.",
   " Noir  cheerleaders?   I thought.  Sure, I love Abbott, but no, really, not for me.  (The first time I heard about  Buffy  ever I said  Vampires in high school, are you shitting me? Why would I want to watch that? ) But I was powering my way through  The End of Everything , slack-jawed, eye-peeled and all agog, and at the back there was a reader's guide (horrible and useless), an author's interview (you're.....glad that Older Lizzie still feels the charm of that family? Uhh. Did you read your own book?) and the prologue plus the first chapter of this book.  It was something. Don't say it wasn't. ....We're all the same under our skin, aren't we? We're all wanting things we don't understand. Things we can't even name. The yearning so deep, like pinions over our hearts. To say I was  hooked  was an understatement. I was landed, gaffed and dressed like the marlin in  The Old Man and the Sea . I have SHIT TO DO and now I'm going to spend the entire evening reading about noir cheerleaders. Damn you, Megan Abbott. Three Hours Later   DAMN that was EXCELLENT. ....fuck now it's time to go to bed. Oh well.",
   "Having been a busy bee at work, I am oh so behind on reviews, and  Megan Abbott's       Dare Me      has so much great commentary out there in the ether that I can't help but feel I have little to add.   I'll lean on a bit of propositional logic to keep things brief, beginning with common misconceptions that I (if only subconsciously) have fallen prey to before:   Book A is about teenage girls  ⊨  Book A is for teenage girls   Use of twisted teenager trope  ⊻  Creative, layered, mind-bending writing   Megan Abbott makes the above statements patently false. While I hope to give this the review it deserves when time allows, for now I will propose a working thesis that should be taken as praise of the highest order.   Megan Abbott  :  the world of teen girls  ::  Dennis Lehane  :  South Boston",
   "The Good:  This book was exactly what I was expecting: a noirish thriller, dark and somewhat edgy, full of mean girls, and advancing the notion that the experiences we have in high school are some of the most dramatic and significant of our lives (which for some of us, I guess, they are). Entertaining, propulsive, and well written on its own terms (that last bit sounds like a backhanded compliment, but for this book it isn't—if you read it you'll see what I mean). Will this book change your life? Uh, no. Frankly, if you give this book five stars, you probably need to expand your reading horizons. But if this is the kind of book you're looking for, this is the one you should read. The Bad:  Oh, the language! It really worked my nerves sometimes. Make no mistake—it's clear that Megan Abbott is using language quite carefully to achieve a certain effect, and it works, but that doesn't mean I liked it. She makes up her own idioms. One character didn't turn white as a sheet, for instance—she  sheeted white.  And the cheerleaders' faces aren't red, they're  tomato-bursting.  And all the hyphenation! It was a bit much:  Stone-sinking.   Matchstick-snapped.   Boot-braced.  And, of course, Sparkle-slitted.  (Uh....) The Indifferent:  There seem to be people on Goodreads complaining that this book is unrealistic and the characters are unlikable. All that is definitely true. If you want likable and realistic, this is not the book for you. But if you just want to have a little no-commitment fun, you can do worse than this.",
   "I like each and every expression by the writer. I have enjoyed it. The keen reader who like flawless  writings as visionary, Should read it. It's a Young Adult fiction, which comprises suspense in climax as the story leads.",
   "Let's be clear from the get go. If you want a more traditional review with a book summary, plot synopsis, and a character family tree, and then possibly a discussion on what the author was trying to accomplish in DARE ME and whether or not she actually achieved her goals, then you'll probably just want to slide it on back and move on to the next review. Because I'm about as non-traditional as they come. Instead, I like discussing how a book made me feel, or didn't feel, discussing writing insights where appropriate, tossing around similes and metaphors like used car parts in a Dumpster, and talking about my overall experience with a book, while taking into account my own knowledge of writing and reading and plain old random shit. In other words, I don't really know what I'm doing, but I have a damn good time being ignorant. So I'll start with this: Teenage girls are bitches and badasses. A female praying mantis treats her mate better than high school girls treat each other. And each manages to accomplish this task with a smile on her face and nothing but love in her heart, right before she brings out the icepick and wields it around the same way a construction worker might employ a two-by-four in the middle of a construction zone.  One might argue the mystery was a bit thin, but this book transcended the typical books in this genre, and proved there's more to a mystery than just the identity of the killer and the resolution of the crime. Instead, this was more about cheerleaders and their penchant to attack one another with vengeance, high school drama that unfolded before me on the page in pinks and purples and shades of red, and the extremes captains and coaches go to all in the name of victory. Yes, cheerleading is a sport, and in some parts of the country it's mentioned in the Sunday prayers along with football and your best friends Jim Bob and Clara Valentine. The shower scene in the girl's locker room at the beginning of this tale reminded me of all the times growing up that I would have practically handed over bodily organs to be given even a brief glimpse behind that steel curtain. But what made this story really click for me was the relationship between Addy Hanlon and Beth Cassidy, gal pals that dance a relationship tango better left choreographed to the professionals. And proves there's much more to a relationship than what's shown to the public. This tale was about as easy to swallow as cotton candy stuffed with razor blades, and now that I know what's behind the pom-poms I wish I could give it all back, since more knowledge isn't always the key to happiness, as this story aptly proves. Cross-posted at Robert's Reads",
   "4.0 stars  While not perfect, I have such warm feelings towards this novel. The story itself is incredibly compelling, pulling me in from the very first chapter. I did not expect to enjoy a book about high school cheerleaders so much. This novel is classified as a young adult, but personally I felt it is targeted at an older audience, despite the high school setting. The characters and story are purposely sensationalized and over the top. Megan Abbott's writing is raw and visceral, at times reminding me of Gillian Flynn or Laurie Halse Anderson. This story contains no moral lessons and is not particularly profound, yet was a decadent, delicious read. Unfortunately, the novel contained several narrative issues and would have benefited from further editing. Towards the end, the narration lost some its luster. I would have rated Dare Me higher if the ending had been stronger. Nevertheless, I was very impressed by Abbott's writing.",
   "3.5 brutal stars. According to sports injury research, cheerleading is more dangerous than any other sport, with the rate of such injuries doubling between 1990 and 2002. For members of the Cheer Squad, captained by Beth Cassidy, there is less chance of being hurt by doing cheer stunts than by getting between Beth and Colette French, the new cheer coach. Beth rules the roost and she will do whatever it takes to anchor her position at the top of this pyramid. The story is told from the viewpoint of Addy Hanlon, Beth's life-long lieutenant. Cheerleading is of such importance to her that high school only exists so these girls can have a cheerleading squad. Coach French's appearance offers the possibility of the Squad to move from a bunch of girls who shaking their pom-poms into a competitive team of athletes. Beth sees the threat to her power immediately. Coach French initially behaves as any professional sport coach would be expected to behave - driven, disciplined, hard-shelled - until many of the members begin to see the progress they are making. At that point, the coach becomes part coach, part parent, part defiler of youth. All the women who make up this squad are “mean,” no one is exempt from the venom so easily and frequently sprayed and everyone is injured by the atmosphere that is allowed to fester. When a tragic event occurs, Beth is offered the opportunity to regain her place as “owner” of the Cheerleaders. Addy is caught between loyalty to her friend, her coach, and her team. She is not innocent in any of the events which seem to envelope her, but neither is she party to the subterfuge that sparked those events. The book shows the writing talent of Ms. Abbott. She highlights well the tension, confusion, anger, angst, and isolation experienced by all the girls. The world she creates is largely parent-free, which is difficult to comprehend. Addy and Beth are out at all hours of the night, leave home whenever they want, yet are never confronted by anyone in authority for their behavior. They ingest various substances, most illegal, rarely eat (or even retain what they do eat) but have no ill-effects from such behavior. For athletes in training for the “Big Game” where “the scout for regionals” will be in attendance, they show little commitment to staying healthy for that event. This undercurrent caused the story to be less believable and less plausible. The ending is well done, having drawn the reader in an entirely different direction until the moment when the curtain is lifted high enough to reveal the hidden truth about each of the characters."],
  '_version_': 1748767598184497152},
 {'id': '31792',
  'author': ['Karsten Knight'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "Fan the flames: A teen goddess fires up her search for love and family in this sequel to ,Wildefire,.,Ashline Wilde may have needed school to learn that she is actually a reincarnated goddess, but she's ready to move beyond books. She leaves her California boarding school behind and makes for Miami, where she meets a new group of deities and desperately seeks her sister Rose, the goddess of war. But she's also looking for love—because even though her romance with Cole had to be snuffed, Ash is a volcano goddess—and she doesn't get burned.,This sequel to the edgy and action-packed ,Wildefire ,continues a fiery drama on an immortal scale.",
  'genre': ['Fantasy',
   'Mythology',
   'Young Adult',
   'Paranormal',
   'Gods',
   'Romance',
   'Supernatural',
   'Magic',
   'Fiction',
   'Paranormal Romance'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1358195430l/12986169.jpg',
  'isbn': '1442450304',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12986169-embers-echoes',
  'page_count': '467',
  'rating': 4.06,
  'review_count': 192,
  'title': 'Embers & Echoes',
  'rating_count': 2028,
  'price': 18.5,
  'sensitivity': ['violence', 'death', 'fire'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'dying',
   'flawed',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'reasonable',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'complicated',
   'struggled',
   'missing',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'twist',
   'emotional',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'lack',
   'spoilers',
   'captured',
   'original',
   'captivated',
   'challenging',
   'entertaining',
   'suffer',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'gush',
   'spiteful',
   'important',
   'modern',
   'worse',
   'average',
   'best',
   'dreaming',
   'shock',
   'disturbing',
   'sweet',
   'rooting',
   'surprised',
   'witty',
   'bothered',
   'hated',
   'top',
   'relatable',
   'revenge',
   'hate',
   'worthy',
   'regret',
   'shocked',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'heart',
   'invested',
   'spooky',
   'swoon',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'awkward',
   'beautiful',
   'annoying',
   'sexy',
   'drama',
   'detailed',
   'struggle',
   'mythology',
   'epic',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'poor',
   'beloved',
   'funny',
   'shocking',
   'interesting',
   'surprising',
   'instalove',
   'different',
   'diverse',
   'unpredictable',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'love',
   'adore',
   'cliffhanger',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["I've been trying to finish this one for ages. I really enjoyed the beginning but I just haven't been able to get into it. I'm putting it down for awhile.",
   "Ember and Echoes by Karsten Knight : Wow. Wow. Wow. I loved book one and now book two took it to a whole new level of amazing. I don't really know how to express my feelings but I will try. The book started right where it left off , and it did NOT disappoint at all. Karsten knows how to keep his readers going, man does he blow you away with the ending to book on and the start of book two. Ashline Wilde is my second favorite female character, and she is coming to a close first. She does not take crap, and you just got to love her attitude. Seriously kind of scary and would not want to be on her bad side, but you can't help but admire all of her. Seriously there is not one thing I would change about her, she does everything she can for those she cares about and loves. She puts it all out there no matter what, and doesn't take the crap. She has baggage but she doesn't mind helping someone with theirs. In this book she is just more amazing and I didn't think that could happen, she grows much more mature, stronger and even more smartass than book one.  Karsten's characters are in one word amazing, I can't explain it but his just come to life and makes you think you are there with them, feeling what they feel, wishing you could just hug some of them in some spots and just be their friend, and it doesn't happen often enough that an author keeps people on the edge of your seat, biting your nails, and wondering what the hell is going to happen next. You cannot predict Ashline so don't try.  Then there is Colt swoon worthy jerk of the year Colt. I loved him and then I started to hate him. Wow. I did not see any of what happened to him coming. Again another amazing character who you cannot predict, you think one thing and something else happens, you start thinking he's an ass and he's not, you think he is good and nope not at all. Ahhh he was making me so frustrated I wanted to scream, which I am not going to lie I did a little. Some parts I couldn't believe what was happening but then I was like I am in love. Then there was Wes whoa baby, back up. When he got introduced I was already half in love with him. Through the book my love grew for him , he was a good guy, and Aurora wow what another amazing character who I cried hysterically for and she is not the only one but I don't want to spoil it for anyone. But these new characters Wes, Aurora the four seasons, Rose Wilde and even Eve amazing, amazing, amazing. This author gets these characters and nailed them right on, with all the information on them, their pasts and everything about them. He makes all their feelings seem real, even the horrible ones. I can't gush enough and I know I keep repeating myself but I can't get over it. All I know this is a book I recommend to everyone, it has a little bit of everything for everyone. Ahhh I am already ready for book 3 and I know I will be biting my nails waiting waiting waiting!!!",
   "Ashline Wilde wanted nothing more than to leave Blackwood Academy behind and to escape the memories of everything that happened that May. But as she learned when she arrived at Blackwood, you can't always run from your past. It will follow you. And ignoring it can have devastating consequences. Consequences she's still reeling from. But when her end of year plans take a drastic turn, she decides to face what she'd been trying to avoid and heads to Miami to track down the sister she knows only from visions. Her six-year-old sister Rose. With barely any information to go on, she only knows that she has to try. Because her latest visions reveal that Rose could be in even more danger than she was before. And returning to Scarsdale without her is not a future Ash is willing to accept. Being a volcano goddess may have its perks, a fiery temper not always being one of them, but it also means that things can turn deadly. Fast. So when the search for her sister lands her in the path of a group of gods and goddess that have a bloodthirsty agenda, Ash must decide whether saving her sister is enough or whether she will have to become a hero for all of humanity. *** Embers & Echoes is the dynamic, riveting, wildly entertaining and action-packed follow-up to Karsten Knight's powerhouse debut novel Wildefire. This sequel, that brings together gods and goddesses from around the globe, not only packs a punch, but has an easy flow that will make the pages fly. The author doesn't just continue this incredibly unique story. He broadens the setting, lengthens the timeline, enlarges the cast of characters and expands the world. And he does all this in a way that feels natural to the story, right for the characters and easy to follow for the reader. Embers & Echoes picks up where it left off in the first book, just moments after Wildefire's jaw-dropping conclusion. With no pause in the timeline, the story is able to continue at its break-neck pace and pull readers right back into Ash's story. Leaving Blackwood Academy behind her, Ashline Wilde sets off on a quest to find her younger sister. One that will introduce her to new friends and put her face-to-face with old enemies. One that holds the promise of a new love but will make her confront an old one. And one that will put her life at risk time and time again. Author Karsten Knight has crafted a story that is inventive, exciting, shocking, heartbreaking and utterly spellbinding. With characters that don't fit a stereotype or behave predictably and a plot that does the same, Embers & Echoes will keep readers on edge, continue to astound and leave them wondering just what happened. With its beautiful and fluid writing that brings both crushing and heartrending losses and surprising and violent ends, this sequel allows readers to make a stronger emotional connection with the characters and story. It puts the heroine in more dangerous and challenging situations that force her to make difficult life and death decisions with consequences that she'll have to live with. And it leaves the door open for a number of possible outcomes, many of which couldn't possibly end happily. Embers & Echoes is an absolute must read second book in this series for those who enjoy exquisitely crafted stories that have an incredibly strong heroine who never could be - or would allow herself to be - called a damsel in distress, stories that include a diverse mix of mythological gods and goddesses and stories that will transport them into a world that is dark, deadly and filled to the brim with action. [On the blog I gave this book my six star off-the-menu rating] On a personal note: If I could give this book as many stars as it would take to fill the night sky I would. Embers & Echoes was so utterly amazing. It grabbed me from the moment I read the start of the first line, “Ashline Wilde lay battered on the side of the Pacific Coast Highway...” and it didn't let up for one single second. This book was intense. It was action-packed. It was everything that Wildefire was, but so much more. Where Wildefire was wicked and kick-a** awesome, Embers & Echoes took it to the next level of awesome, the “Oh my gods, oh my goddesses did that just really bleeping happen?” kind of awesome. I could not believe how packed full of everything this book was. There was nail-biting suspense. There was a lightning fast pace. There were peeks into another time. There were peeks into another place. There were gods and goddesses aplenty. There was romance. There were heaps upon heaps of danger. There were some of the most wicked fight scenes I've ever read in YA. And there were moments of tenderness and heartbreak that stopped my heart from beating, stole my breath and left me utterly devastated. Yes, this author broke my heart in not one, but two centuries. Oh and of course there was a good boy, a bad boy and a not-so-good girl that took center stage. And yet it didn't feel overstuffed. It didn't feel over the top. It didn't feel like some kind of superpower convention. Every single character in this story was important. Every single character was fascinating and interesting and either detestable, lovable, a little bit of both, or just plain terrifying. Every moment was one I wanted to read. Every place that Ash went was one that I wanted to go along with her. And every heartbreaking moment was one I felt to my very core. Especially with what happened to... No, I wasn't really going to say who. Okay, maybe I did say who, but that's what the backspace key is for. There is so much I want to talk about that I can't. I want to explain why my heart broke over certain words the author put down on the page. Words that are causing me to tear up again as I think back on them. I want to talk about just what happened to those gods and goddess and what it could mean for the other characters. I want to talk about the past. I want to know what is going to happen next. I want to know why I am rooting for a character I probably shouldn't be rooting for. I want to know why certain characters have certain motivations. I want to know whether I should be as terrified of a certain character as I am. And I want to talk about a certain Hopi Trickster and what I really think about them. But I can't do that either. What I can say is that I loved this book both times I read it. That love is not even close to a strong enough word for what I feel about it. That I will be reading this book again and again. That it's a book that I never will forget. That it's a book that was able to transport me instantly to this author's world when nothing else allowed me an escape. And that while there seemed to be so very many pages, the story ended all too quickly. In the year since I'd first read Wildefire I forgot just a little bit how amazing this author truly is. I forgot how much I loved his writing. I forgot how captivated I was by his characters. I didn't think it was possible that he could follow up that book with one that was even more spectacular, even more surprising, even more riveting, but he did. And I never expected for him to make me cry. But he did that too. I never like to use words like “poignant” or “compelling” in my reviews as I feel like those words are above my pay grade and best left to those who do this for a living. But Embers & Echoes was compelling and at times poignant and the way the author crafted each sentence, each paragraph, each scene, each chapter was absolutely masterful. So...um...yeah.... To say I liked this book just a little bit would be the understatement of the century.",
   "  You can't run someplace new and not fill up the new space with the old stuff. The things you want to leave behind are the very things you can't. - Ash  I'm indestructible, Ash. That doesn't mean I'm incapable of feeling. I still experience love, and I can still experience pain. - Colt    When we reached the ending of Wildefire, the first book in the series, we learned that Colt isn't someone we thought he was. He isn't human. He isn't the same Colt. With this horrible realization, Ash ran away from him and decided to find her sisters--Rose, the youngest of the Wilde sisters who is known to be very dangerous and whom she never met, and Eve whom she learned isn't dead but in Nether, held captured by the Cloak. In the process of finding her sisters, she met Wes, the hot and gorgeous Aztec God of Night, and Aurora, the Roman Goddess of Dawn.  Embers & Echoes started exactly where the first book ended, and with that huge cliffhanger ending in Wildefire, expect another thrill ride, lots of suspense, actions, mysteries and of course romance.    This was the second time recently she'd saved a boy from being chained and tortured.   Let's hope I don't regret saving this one,  she whispered to no one at all.  The looks that you and Wes have been exchanging the last forty-eight hours are so hot that I'm surprised you don't need sunglasses to keep from getting pregnant. - Aurora    What I loved about Karsten Knight's books is the humor and wit. This book doesn't lack of those. It balances the story especially when the book is full of suspense and heart-throbbing actions. There are old enemies, old foes, new friends--all these characters are amazing and very well-developed. You just can't help but love and care for them. So when a character died, well… of course it wasn't pretty, and it was absolutely not fun at all. I have to say that this book is even more heartbreaking for me than Wildefire 'cos once again I lost my favorite characters. The author isn't afraid to kill his characters--characters that I loved ever since Wildefire and I think it was a brave move. I just hope Karsten will continue to create beautiful Gods and Goddesses in the next books--characters that I will love as much as I love the others (may they rest in peace *wink).  And please… oh dear Author, please, can you at least spare me some pain and heartache by not killing any more of my favorite characters? Not as much as I loved Wildefire, but this one is really good. More suspenseful than the first. The mysteries and twists are even more intriguing. I am not fully satisfied with the ending because for me it's tragic. But overall, this book is amazing. The secrets and the revelations aren't what I expected either. There are more secrets from the past that are yet to unfold and I'm excited to see them revealed on the next book. Yes, sometimes I got frustrated because I didn't know who to trust anymore--the characters are unpredictable! So expect betrayal, revenge, and murders. I enjoyed it and I am eagerly anticipating the third. Full of actions, mysteries, suspense, wit and even drama, this book will put you at the edge of your seat.    You make a decision whether you want to spend your life staring at the dark horizons…Or whether you want to spend it catching every sunrise that you can. - Wes  ",
   "A finished unsolicited copy was provided by the publisher for review. I was extremely glad I had  Embers and Echoes  after I read that  Wildefire  cliffhanger.  Embers and Echoes  picks up right after. We find Ash with the truth of having another sister named Rose. The Four Seasons Gods and Goddesses seem to be after her, as well as the billionaire Lesley Vanderbilt. She meets more gods and goddess friends this time around, and with their help manage to track down Rose. What she doesn't know is that Colt is also after her as well. What happens when she comes face to face with the love of her life, the trickster? Ash is such a spitfire, and I love it. She's completely snarky and violent. Which makes sense because she's a volcano goddess. I also love the fact that she rescues guys instead of the guys rescuing her. Lily is back and bitchier than ever. I rather liked how she took the role of villain since Eve was stuck in the Cloak Underworld. Wes is a great new addition and he seems more trustworthy than Colt ever was. And last but not least, there's Colt. He's the one behind the schemes and games and when he reveals the truth behind his trickery, I almost felt pity for him. The mish-mash of all mythological tales are again combined in this trilogy. I rather like it. I would end up googling their names and reading up on all the stories. What I didn't like was that there was no detailed history of why and how the gods are reincarnated as humans in the first place. (We need answers Karsten!) I also love that the cast is multi-cultural. It just seems so much more relatable since not everyone is a cookie cutter blonde in the novel. So much action in this one that I could not put it down. I love the action scenes. They were detailed enough to imagine in my mind's eye. The dialogue always managed to crack me up. Especially Ash's witty remarks towards anyone who was male. I also couldn't fathom why everyone had to be gorgeous and wanted to hook up with every god or goddess that was around. Maybe Aphrodite is enticing them with her powers? Another confusing bit about the book was the switch from third person to second person. I thought it was wildy annoying, and felt Karsten should have stuck to third person through out the novel. Second person viewpoints should stick Choose Your Own Adventure books. In the end, I really enjoyed this one. I can't wait to find out what happens in the next novel. There's a lot of questions i want answered.",
   "Ashline Wilde, age 16 is a reincarnated volcano goddess, Pele on a mission. Her younger sister has been kidnapped by the Cloake, a supposed Miami based cult. Ashline is nearly killed by her boyfriend and once she gets away she hopes to never see him again, but that isn't in the cards. Ash comes in contact with the Four Seasons, who are power hungry deities and finds that they are working for a very wealthy woman who's goal is to use Ash's six year old sister, Rose, to open the portal to the netherworld. This is also the place that Ash has sent her evil older sister, Eve. To make matters worse, Ash rescues the Aztec god, Wes and then has more issues with Colt, the ex-boyfriend. Ash's goal is to rescue both sisters and go back home to their parents. But she is having flashbacks to earlier lives and is finding out some disturbing information about all of the gods and goddesses in her current life. She must make some difficult decisions in order to save her current life and those she loves, but will it be too late? This book is set in modern day which makes the gods and goddesses even more fun. This is a great sequel book and even if you didn't read the first one, the author does a good job of making all the pieces fit together and make sense. Full of action and adventure, this is a fast moving, fun, exciting read! I highly recommend to High school and up. ",
   'RTC!',
   "As you know, I absolutely adored Ash and the gang in last year's Wildefire, and I'm happy to say that I enjoyed Embers and Echoes as well (even if lots of my favorite characters weren't really in this book. Sad Sasha!). Karsten Knight took us away from the boarding school setting and brought us to the “sizzling beaches of Miami” and I enjoyed the setting change. It helped me visualize how much change has gone on in Ash's life since she figured out that she was a reincarnated goddess. And while I enjoyed new characters - hello, Wes - I missed the old ones too! It was interesting trying to see how the overall arc was being formed in this sequel and I enjoyed this book's arc standing alone. Also, can I just say that I think Karsten writes such high action scenes SUPERBLY. I felt myself on the edge of my seat and couldn't wait to see what the next blow/punch/action was going to be. I loved it. And OH MY, the twist and turns and WHAT THE HECKs. This book is high intensity and does not suffer from “middle book syndrome” at all. I can't wait to see how this all ends.",
   'Eventually, I will finish Wildefire.  Until then, I will say that I like the title for this book. Perhaps the cover will be cooler too. ',
   'Dear Karsten Knight, I am waiting. Waiting for this book. ',
   "From my blog  Auntie Spinelli Reads Oh. My. Wow! I am currently speechless, please give me 3.5 seconds...... Okay. Ahem. So, um, this book rocked my socks. It was fast-paced, action-packed, and full of twists and turns. The stakes are high and nothing is what it seems. And boy, did everything go to hell in a handbasket... Mr. Knight really knows how to play your emotions! I felt a vast array of them - shock, horror, sadness, joy, regret. Mostly shock. This book was a rollercoaster of emotion! There are SO many things that didn't go the way I wanted them to, and so many losses. I can't believe...just...ah! And the secrets revealed about the past were crazy! Everything tied together brilliantly. And you only got bits and pieces at a time, so it was like a puzzle to figure out. (I love puzzles. ^.^) I still adore Ash. She's fiery and strong, albeit a bit volatile at times (but that's because she's a volcano goddess). I gotta hand it to her, even after all of the shit that she went through - which would have reduced most of us into a sniveling fetal ball - she managed to keep her shit together and do what she had to do. I hated Colt. I think I liked him in Wildefire, but I didn't know then what I know now, nor did I know everything that he was responsible for. And his agenda was shocking. I hope he gets what's coming to him in book 3! The minor characters were fabulous. Wes, the sexy god of night; Aurora, the spunky winged goddess; and even Ixtab (esh-tawb), the lesbian-ish reaper of death. I liked them all! And even the baddies were well-done, inciting dislike and sometimes outright hatred from me: Thorne, Bleak, Rey, and Lily. The Four Seasons were terrible and their fanatical ideas were horrifying. So were the things they did. I'm not sure about the romance, though. Things moved pretty fast between Ash and Wes, and he was kind of a rebound from Colt - and there was an almost love triangle. Thankfully it didn't fully form, because there was never a question of who Ash would pick (or who I would pick for that matter). It wasn't really instalove - they didn't get  that  serious - but it was a little more serious than you would expect from two people who had only known each other a few days. The revelation about Pele - holy crap! I never saw that one coming. The whole Candelabra thing with the Spark, the Fuse, and the Flame was fabulous!  Can I please have  Afterglow  now? >.< Favorite quotes:  I'm an Aztec god of night - Tezcatlipoca.   Texting a cat with what?   The looks that you and Wes have been exchanging the last forty-eight hours are so hot that I'm surprised you don't need sunglasses to keep from getting pregnant.   My mother said that there were two kinds of people. The kind that run to their future, and the kind that run from their past. As someone who has run twice in her life, I can tell you this: They're the same damn thing. You can't run someplace new and not fill up the new space with the old stuff. The things you want to leave behind are the very things you can't.  With everything that happened, that quote was perfect for this book! Favorite character:  Probably Aurora, I really liked her. I could see her and I being friends in real life. :) ASSESSMENT Plot: 5/5 Writing style: 4.5/5 Originality: 5/5 Characters: 4.5/5 World-building: 5/5 Pace: 5/5 Cover: 4/5",
   "Truly and engrossing read. Okay huge spoilers so anyone who reads and have not read the book have only themselves to blame if they read further.   Ashe is one of my favorite female leads. So after finding out her boyfriend is a deity as well he shows a bit of true insanity. Ashe uses her lava powers to glue him to ground to get away from him. She eventually goes to Miami to find the enticing the Aztec god of night Tezcatlipoca but referred to as Wes. Also their are tidbits into the long lost little sister of Ashe and Eve and boy she is even worse than Eve. She truly loves blowing things up and is spiteful and entitled. The book introduces 3 antagonists along with a re-introduction to Lily who like they will a problem but the true instigator of all the misfortune is Colt because they promptly get killed off one by one. The first one to die is Norse goddess of Winter who I felt sorry for when she asked Ashe to not leave her alone while she died despite Ashe being the one responsible for it. Then comes the death of said Norse deities boyfriend. Lily becomes a true entitled bint who despite the fact that she looked pained when trying to Kill Ashe deserved to be stabbed in the heart from a broken champagne glass. Her final moments are spent on one last rant on how the people she betrayed first ruined her life. The final one gets offed by the psychotic Rose's explosions. She is taken to Wes's home and eventually gets Ashe to the netherworld where Eve is kept. There its revealed that the reasons there are less gods is their own fault. The gods spent their eternal lives not gaining wisdom but being entitled bullies. The spooky force that gods feared is actually a friendly hivemind allergic to hatred. They only took Eve when Ashe had enough of the emotional strain she put upon her. Even after being freed Eve proves that Ashe is the only reasonable one of the family along with the only one who has a fundamental moral core while Eve would turn off any guilt relating to her adoptive parents guilt and cause chaos. Colt reveals his mater plan of making the three Wildes one as they were all once the whole Pele. Then Rose commits the act that removed any amount of sympathy I did have and could have had for her. She then throws Raja out a thirty foot window. And Eve steals Raja's baby to join Colt and his insane love fusion love plan making me wish that Ashe would break her big sisters jaw and cripple her.What a ride it was. I hope Rose dies painfully and slowly from an implosion for ironies sake. While Eve gets stuck in a cave instead all of them fusing back into one. ",
   "Pele incarnate is back and setting Miami ablaze in Embers and Echoes a Wildefire sequel. Ashline Wilde is on a quest to find her youngest sister but is in for quite a brawl. Lesley Vanderbilt still has a score to settle and she's enlisted her own local league of gods looking to spark their own agenda and they want to count the littlest Wilde as one of their own. Unfortunately battling bad guys and saving her sister is just the start. Ex-flame Colt Halliday has other plans and Ash maybe playing right into them. I didn't love Wildefire. I didn't like Ash. But I did find Embers and Echoes resolved quite a few of my issues from the first book. Again I think the premise and ideas are solid. Plus in book two we find out some background and motivation for why characters like Eve and Ash are at odds with each other. Knight sets up the series story line by the end of the book so readers get an idea of where he plans on taking things. I think the pacing was good for most of the book, things were a little slower in the middle but the book was filled with a lot of action and quite a few epic battles to balance things out. There were a couple of scenes that didn't work for me. One was to be an emotional confrontation under a weeping willow that was more like an uncomfortable soap opera scene than the heart wrenching episode I thought it was meant to be. Ashline was much more likable in this book, she's not as selfish and she's looking for her sister which helped remove her from the heroines you hate category. I also liked a lot of the newly introduced supporting characters. Yet I still found it hard to connect with the book. The world is filled with a lot of animosity which I think fuels the disconnect but the biggest challenge for me is that while Ash is more likable she's not to the flawed but lovable heroine stage. And while I give the author credit for not being afraid to off his characters, it's those characters who are likable, that I am interested in and invested in seeing make it through, that don't make it at all. And then we're left with mostly villains. Overall I found Embers and Echoes entertaining but still unengaging. While I liked the sequel better than Wildfire, I'm still finding a disconnect. The heroine has come a long way and I really liked where the author is taking the story but I'm hoping as Ash evolves and more of the background and story is revealed, I'll find what's missing for me and along with a book I truly love.",
   "Embers and Echoes, the sequel to Wildefire was an amazing-emotional rollercoaster! I read Wildefire last year and really enjoyed it. Karsten left readers with a shocking cliff hanger…so I knew I had to read the sequel ASAP. Embers and Echoes starts off exactly where the last book ended, with Ashline and Colt emerging from the motorcycle accident, and where readers learn the revelations about Colt's true identity (don't want to spoil the series for those who haven't read it yet). Ashline has a dream of Rose, her younger sister, and follows the clues to Miami. Once she arrives in Miami, she saves another young man who happens to be a deity just like Ash. As Ash and her new friends search for her sister Rose, it leads them to the Four Seasons. The Four Seasons has Rose, and she's part of their master plan to reveal themselves to the human population. Not only does Ash have to save her sister but stop the Four Season before they wreck havoc on the streets of Miami. If you read Wildefire, you'll definitely get everything you enjoyed in the first book and more! Like the first book, Embers and Echoes is broken up into three parts and there are chapters of Ashline dreaming of her past lives and dreams that are seen through Rose's eyes. Readers get a new playground as they leave the academy in California, and explore Miami. Knight had no problem getting rid of characters in this book, as the list of casualties piled up. I was pretty shocked to see certain characters go and others were kind of expected LOL. This was a very quick read, regardless of it being almost 500 pages (480 pages). The book is full of action, suspense, crazy twist and shocking betrayals! A must read for everyone, and if you haven't read the first book…what are you waiting for?! Go buy it now! ",
   "OMG, really Karsten Knight??? You HAD to kill EVERYONE???!!! Even the characters I actually liked??? Wow, this book was filled with SOOOOO many twists and turns, I never saw it coming. Well, except for the cryptic  DONT AGE THE BABY  thing.... yeah, well, overall...AMAZING book with brand new characters and action-packed scenes. And the part with Pele being a candelabra, that was certainly interesting. But now I'm wondering... the goddess was split into the Spark, the Fuse, and the Ember, but who is really Pele??? Ashline, Evelyn, and Roselyn are ALL different, and yes, it mentioned how that was what happened when they split Pele into three, but they seem TOTALLY different. So, which part of Pele is Ash?? Yes, she is the  volcano  part, but who was the one with Colt all this time? And Wes, what part does he have?? And How many more gods and goddesses will be introduced??? **SPOILER** So, out of Ashline's merry crew of gods and goddesses at Blackwood, here's who passed -ROLFE, thorn or whatever, can't remember what it was, to the heart by Lily -RAJA, fell off a apartment building -ADE, oh wait, he didnt die :D -LILY, champagne flute thingy to the heart by Ash And the Four Seasons, gosh, what an interesting name REY, SUMMER BLEAK, WINTER THORNE, FALL LILY, SPRING Really??? The name's, gosh, worked well >< Well, good job Karsten Knight A book i will always remember,  And Colt Halliday..... ASHLINE WILDE IS COMING FOR YOU!!!!! *One more thing.*  Wait. What happened to Raja's kid? And what? I feel like I don't understand HOW this author can kill off this many people (Many many people) in how many pages?? A few. How could someone DO that???",
   "Full review on Reader's Dialogue:  http://readersdialogue.blogspot.com/2... Definitely fiery! With the amount of times Miami is burnt, frozen, overgrown, electrocuted, or blown up, it's amazing it still exists!  Ash's search for her little sister leads her to more of what she experienced in the first book in regard to her trust of others, her quest to live a normal life, and her desire to patch things up with her sisters. As her visions show her more and more of her past lives, she doesn't know whom to trust - and who should trust her. The more she finds out, the more complicated things get. And when she learns exactly what the Cloak is doing, and what Colt is doing, the stakes are raised tremendously, both for her personally and for the world at large. I love Ash's relationship with Wes. It's so sweet to watch, and amid the crazy crazy going on all around them, it's nice to see this. It's like their lifeline for a while. Until, of course, Ash finds out why they're being together is probably not such a good idea - and then in typical Ash fashion, fights for their relationship to survive despite the clear warning signs. Colt comes back and messes things up, but not for too long, thankfully - I really hate that guy by now. I was totally invested in the characters throughout the book, and when some of the good ones died, it hit me strongly. It heightened the feeling of being completely alone that Ash has to deal with most of the time. And the last couple of pages are really really great! Setting things up for book 3, but nail-bitingly tense all on its own. I'm really looking forward to the final book!",
   "Ah good, no middle-book-syndrom to be found here. A lot more violence and a little less crazy sister though. Eve is stuck in the netherworld and a group of gods have kidnapped Ash's sister from her previous kidnappers. And now that she knows her boyfriend Colt is a creepy liar, she's on her own, headed to Miami to get back both her sisters. There she meets Wes, god of the night and his friend Aurora, some goddess with wings, who are willing to help Ash in tracking down her youngest sister by going after Lesley, the woman determined to kill Eve and her band 4 of gods and goddesses who call themselves The Four Seasons. This book is significantly longer than Wildefire but also has a lot more going on, this is not a case where the author forgot how to edit. This book includes many god-on-god battles in between calmer scenes where we get to know Ash's new friends, as well what happened in her most recent past life. We have some reappearances from Ash's god friends from the first book but mostly we're dealing with a new set of characters as people are not dead have gone their separate ways for the summer. So this book brings with it, more anger, and fighting, but is just as good if not better than the first. We also learn a lot more about Pele and the Cloak.",
   "THAT WAS AN INTENSE READ! This book is just AMAZING, thumbs UP for Karsten Knight. First, the characters are unique, and based on the myths of god and goddess around the world, ones I've never even heard of. So that alone is pretty interesting. And then, comes the plot. You know, I tend to always predict the plot of the books i read. And I tend to be right, A LOT. But ever since i read Wildefire and then Embers and Echoes... I just couldn't guess the plot surely. There's a lot of twists that make me think twice, and that's intriguing. I just can't put the book down, and trust me, this book's worth my whole night and day. So yeah, I really recommend for everyone to read it. You want romance? Check! Fantasy? Check! Paranormal? Check! Adventure? Check! Hot and stark boys? Check! Some hand fist and cat fight? Check! Just can't wait till the next installment is released. I heard it will be on December, geeeeez!",
   'I wish that goodreads puts a higher rating in the stars because I think this story deserves more than just five stars! It deserves ten for crying out loud! Already I enjoyed the second book more than the first book because of the intense action and the fire power that our beloved heroine Ash possesses. Talk about a heroine who is probably katnis everden and Beatrice prior combined into one, with a few added touches to make Ash a fiery goddess that I have come to love in this series! Now I need to go onto the third book so that I can see her kick her ex boyfriends sorry butt back into oblivion!',
   "I am a bit disappointed with this book. Not really feeling the direction of this book. To me the first book had a Misfits feel to it (BBC show.) I loved how these teenagers at school got together to form this group that fought against the bad guys. Taking Ash away from the school and away from the others gods, well it didn't really work for me. And now having her go on this wild goose chase. Also, why cant writers write me one good story where the bf isn't a controlling or an asshole? I will definitely catch the next book but i am just sitting here sighing at would this story could have been.",
   "Second round, still SO GOOD!!! Previous Review I had not expected this to get SO GOOD. It's wildly entertaining with original plot, twists, and actioned packed scenes. It's also emotionally drenching to see how much Ash and others had to go through. Same with the last one, there were multiples of flashbacks and a lot of characters but I had no problem retaining all of them. Each one helped move the story along and build the many layers of its world. The ending, again, I did not see it coming!!! It's a VERY good setup for the next book.",
   "Easy read and good writing, but average to poor plot. I struggled through the first quarter and decided to keep reading. Put the book down permanently after the movie theater scene. That was just uncalled for and one of the the more terrible and awful scenes I've read in a long time. Not worth finishing the book or series after that.",
   'Dont worry no spoiler but omg this book is awesome its about greek mythology gods and there so much going on that it leaves u on the edge of your sitn But also truly sad to.Definitely reading the third right away waited to long to read the 2nd & 3rd.',
   'Okay, I really like the cover of this book! ',
   "Funny quote: I'm the Aztec God of night-Tezcatlipoca. Texting a cat with a what?",
   "This book was soooo much better than the previous book. Most of my issues with the last book were fixed in the sequel. For instance, you see a lot more supernatural action from Ash. Also, I didn't find many plot holes. However, the beginning felt weird. In the first book, the ending was awkward and I didn't like it all that much. The beginning of Embers and Echoes was a continuation of Wildefire's ending. It was like the author wrote the ending and beginning of the two books as one chapter, then literally divided them. Kind of odd. Another thing is that almost no characters from the book came back in, except Ash's family. The only other people that came in were unconscious and saved in the span of 2 pages or made a brief appearance before dying. I feel like everyone dies. At least Ash addresses this in her internal struggle over whether or not to keeping fighting because everyone dies helping her, but still. Now to the positive aspects of the book. There were so many plot twists that were brilliant. The flashbacks, age old family feud, supernatural dramas, and game-changing self discoveries were absolutely brilliant! I still can't get over the secret of Ash, Eve, and Rose's real self. However, I must say that the ending shocked me. I really thought Eve had changed her ways, and then Rose's actions... totally didn't see that coming. I was really hoping Ash would get her happily ever after, but I am excited there is another book. Overall, I absolutely loved this book! Definitely recommend that everyone reads this series! It may have some flaws, but it's easy to get past once you see how awesome the series is. ",
   'Wow okay. I actually like this book series. The main character, Ashline is not completely annoying or too Mary-Sue. The antagonists are also varied beautifully and developed in interesting ways. I actually look forward to seeing where the story goes. And there is a big plot twist that threw me. I just wish Ash get her anger under control. That is her main weakness, but as she starts to over come this in the book I find myself becoming more attached to her character. But there were a couple of plot holes and unexplained things that bothered me but did not get in the way too much of the plot. Overall yes, give it a read. Continue with the series.',
   'I actually liked the second one better than the first. I thought the characters had more of a chance to devolop in this book even though an entire new set was introduced. Also, the bad characters were pretty creeptastic. I am looking forward to the next book.',
   "Why are all the gods and goddesses teenagers? Do they all get reincarnated on almost the same schedule? Also, the idea of a guy singing a chord is weird. Shouldn't it be a note? Well I wasn't a music major so I could be wrong. These books are ok, not great, but I'll finish the trilogy.",
   "Many twists and turns the whole journey, you're clinging on the whole ride."],
  '_version_': 1748767598249508864},
 {'id': '31810',
  'author': ['Jason Myers'],
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "In this gritty novel from the author of ,Exit Here ,and ,Dead End,, love is a high-priced and dangerous game: Play or be played.,Alexander didn't believe in love at first sight until he met Patti. She's the kind of girl you hear about in songs: gorgeous, feisty, and dangerous. Being with Patti is better than any high, and he can't live without her., But Alexander's not the only one who wants to be with Patti. Burke ruthlessly takes what he wants and will kill to protect what is his. And he won't let Patti go without a fight. If Patti and Alexander are going to be together, their love will come at a steep price. Because some promises are meant to be broken, and not all debts can be paid in cash….",
  'genre': ['Young Adult',
   'Romance',
   'Novels',
   'Fiction',
   'Realistic Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1348499405l/12987134.jpg',
  'isbn': '1442446277',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/12987134-run-the-game',
  'page_count': '544',
  'rating': 3.77,
  'review_count': 92,
  'title': 'Run the Game',
  'rating_count': 711,
  'price': 18.29,
  'sensitivity': ['cursing',
   'rape',
   'violence',
   'drugs',
   'abuse',
   'sexism',
   'alcohol',
   'vomit',
   'addiction',
   'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['hated',
   'dying',
   'appealing',
   'cute',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'predictable',
   'top',
   'smile',
   'recommend',
   'enjoying',
   'brutal',
   'stupid',
   'hate',
   'fantastic',
   'relate',
   'favorite',
   'taboo',
   'sucks',
   'obsessed',
   'wholesome',
   'wonderful',
   'shocked',
   'shocking',
   'worst',
   'entertained',
   'waste',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'realistic',
   'surprise',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'slaying',
   'different',
   'edgy',
   'heart',
   'terrible',
   'special',
   'twist',
   'emotional',
   'shock',
   'hooked',
   'easy',
   'repetitive',
   'bad',
   'downhill',
   'bothers',
   'lacked',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'disturbing',
   'love',
   'delighted',
   'perfect',
   'annoyed',
   'sweet',
   'surprised',
   'rooting',
   'dark',
   'spoilers',
   'tired',
   'cringe',
   'mess',
   'subtle',
   'horrendous',
   'beautiful',
   'suffer',
   'trash',
   'detailed'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': [" The first time I ever got picked up at the A-LOT, I was nervous as fuck. I ain't a homo. Putting that shit in your mouth. Slamming or getting slammed up the ass. Shit makes me wanna fucking vomit. Sends fucking shivers down my spine and shit  So I recently re-read my 'review' and realized it was kinda all over the place and just well, sloppy. Since I don't really care enough to spend time writing a whole new review, here are some quick reasons why I did not like Run the Game.. -It's marketed towards readers 16+, I do not believe  most  16 year old kids are mature enough to read this -I cuss alot and even I got annoyed with the constant 'and shit' (also fuck) thrown at the end of every sentence (obviously I'm over exaggerating when I say every sentence) -The main character Alex, annoyed the hell outta me and made me want to pull my hair out -His 'love' for Patti had no reasoning, and came out of no where..'insta love' -This is the worst book I have ever read next to Fifty Shades of Grey. Everyone has their own opinion on things and this is mine. I didn't care for this book one bit and it was the biggest waste of 9.99$. I have heard good things about Jason's other books, so I may give those a try, but I won't be buying them that's for sure. Gonna borrow them from the library.  That's all, and shit (: ",
   "Frankly, I see most of the reviews that I've read to be based off of stupidity, and closed-mindedness. I'm 17 years old, and I know a good book when I read it. It's not because I live a life like that, or even want to. But people do go through this. There are people that are power-hungry like Lars, or Burke. There are also people that fall in love daily. Jason went beyond what was expected of him. you may not see a 14-year old prostitute, and 19-year old junkie fall in love, but he symbolized it as a regular boy falling in love with a regular girl. Seeing as Patti played with Alexander's heart, don't we see boys nowadays play with girls hearts? Yes? Okay. On the subject of the gruesome sex- Kids these days aren't influenced by books to have gritty, hot sex. They're influenced by the people around them. It's not that adults think that we're too YOUNG to read books like these, it's the fact that most of our teenage population isn't MATURE enough to read books like these. Adults blow it waaaay out of proportion. I can read books like these because I decipher everything in a more logical way than most teenagers. I see this book to be satisfyingly brutal. I really like the way that Jason kept me on the edge of my seat until the very last word of the novel. I was intrigued by the way that he set up the plot, and the setting. The character development. We went from thinking that Patti and Alexander were going to go to New York forever to being completely appalled at the end when she sets him up. It's a tear-jerking read, and I definitely recommend it to people of ANY age, as long as their mind is mature enough to handle the way that Myers writes. ",
   "To everyone saying horrible things about this book... YOU HAVE TO LIKE THR STYLE OF WRITTING. Jason Myers writes very detailed graphic scenese. That's his style..... If you don't like that style...don't read the books. Its directed towards young audience's, no I wouldn't refined this book to anyone's under the age of 18... but I read all three books that best previously written a d love all 3 of them and am reading this one now. People are so fast to say bad things about all the graphics or what not but the sad this is ...that's what kids are doing these days......its reality pretty much. No it doesn't make it okay buy kids can relate to these books. ",
   'Wow. I wish I could give this book 0 stars. It was that bad.',
   "It's simple. You either love this book or you hate it. I loved it. The fact that people are getting mad at how grapic it is, read reviews before you buy it!! Jason Myers is known for his grafic, sex, drugs books. I love books like these. The end of the book is kind of predictable. But it made me sad still.. haha. I'd reccomend it to friends if I knew they liked these kind of books. I've read all four of his books (HUGE fan of Exit here. By far my favorite book) But I can't wait until his next book. I will DEFINETLY be buying it :)",
   "Raw, hardcore, not for the conservative or faint at heart. That being said, I LOVED it! This book takes a huge turn somewhere that you really don't want it to go...about a wanna-be band member teenager and his struggles with drugs, sex, rock-n-roll, friendships and relationships. Can't wait to read more from this author!",
   'intense and well-paced, but not for readers who expect books to morally instruct their audience. ',
   "*Contains Spoilers* Jason Myers is one of my favorite authors. While browsing in a book store, I discovered he came out with a new book called  Run The Game.  I purchased it and read it. This book started off very good. The first page really sucks the reader in. And Jason Myers does a fantastic job of keeping the reader interested. Each page mentions information the reader wants and needs to know. This novel contains many ups and downs. It's a very edgy book.  Run The Game  is classified as a young adult book, though many readers disagree and believe it should be under a more adult category. I would have to say I agree with that. This book contains an awful lot of adult material such as alcohol, drugs and sex. (Granted his other books do contain these subjects as well, there is more of these three topics in this book than in any other book I have read by him.) The main character, Alexander, is a drug addict and does drugs multiple times a day. So do his friends, roommates and band members. Alexander falls head over heals for a prostitute named Patti. They plan to forget about their small town and move to New York City. But in order to do so, he needs to pay off a gang who claims Patti as their own. He owes Raymond, the leader of the gang, $500 at the first of each month for four months. As I was reading today, Patti and Alexander had finally made plans to move to the Big Apple. The story was getting really intense. I kept reading. Turns out, Patti was using Alex for the money. Raymond and his gang found Alex and tortured him. The book ends with them bashing his head against a piece of wood, punching his body and a saw blade running across his wrists. He sees Patti in these moments. He pictures the two of them in a beautiful field. They embrace and kiss. And that's exactly where it ends. I was extremely upset with this ending. It appears as though he is killed, though you can't be one hundred percent certain. I was also upset with the fact that after all the things Patti told Alex about how much she loved him, after everything he did for her and every thing he gave up for her, that she turned him over to Raymond and left him to die. I'm upset that she scammed him. It was her idea. Raymond needed the money for another prostitute's plastic surgery, so they stole Alex's money. I've read Jason Myers' books before, they are usually heavy books like this relating to drugs and alcohol and serious issues, but none of them have ended like this. None of them have contained this much sex and drugs. I feel as though part of the ending of this book was intended to shock readers after he had lulled them into a false happy ending, when in reality, it is a terribly sad ending. Overall, I did enjoy the book. I just did not enjoy the ending. I will continue to read his books. I enjoy his style of writing. But as for this book, I don't think I would recommend this book to anyone that I know. As well written as I believe it is, I don't think any of my peers should be reading it.",
   "I have read his previous books and enjoyed them all. I especially liked  Dead End  because I felt that the story had a heart and I really enjoyed the plot and the action. It hurts me to give this book such a low review, but I have a lot of problems with it. One of them being the labeling of this novel as a Young Adult book. I am conflicted in my disapproval of this, because at the same time I know that kids now are saturated with sex and drugs. It's the sad truth. Are there kids like Patti out there? Yes. I cannot deny that truth. At the same time, though, most of the characters in this novel are not teenagers but adults.  Take the main character, for example. He is nineteen years old and dating Patti, a fourteen year old hooker. I'm supposed to be okay with the fact that they're dating? Am I also supposed to be okay with the disturbing violence and discrimination against women? I ground my teeth every time a woman or girl was referred to her sexual organ. Throughout the entire novel, it feels like women are the enemy and the main reason why everything goes downhill. Women and girls are judged on their bodies alone and nothing else. Also, Alexander and his 'crew' don't hang out with ugly or fat people. How disgustingly shallow is that? I hate the main character. In the end, I don't care what ends up happening to him. I don't feel an ounce of sympathy toward him.  There's an abundance of sex, drugs, booze, and violence. I don't get any emotion out of it, though. What did I feel when I finished reading it? Nothing, really. I hate almost all of the characters. They have no sense of responsibility and are completely selfish. They only think about themselves. They are supposed to be cool, but they are the last people on Earth I would ever want to hang out with. It's a scene that's supposed to be awesome, but to me it has the attraction of raw meat on a sizzling pan (I've been a vegetarian for five years).  It bothers me to no end that women are still called wh*res and sl*ts, yet we live in the age of equality. This novel just reminds me that sexism is still alive and well. And of course I enjoyed the use of fagg*t on every page. That always brings a smile to my face. Sarcasm.  It's pretty obvious, but I am disappointed with this book. I had such high hopes for it. It just feels like a reinforcement of our hyper-masculine, sexist society that always lays the blame on women. That horribly flawed yet well loved stereotype: females are only concerned about one thing. Money. That's all we ever care about. It's such a horrible message, and one that young kids are able to read into? Some things just won't change, I guess.  I feel horrible writing this review. It's hard for me to write this. I really wanted to like this novel. But I hate the main character. I hate the other horrible characters. Drugs are stupid as hell. They will never, ever appeal to me. And I just find the story flawed and stereotypical.  2 stars.",
   "  “Unicorn to heaven. Panther to hell.”   This grunge-fest of sex, drugs and rock-n-roll took me completely by surprise. In a good way. This isn't an easy book to get through or even something everyone will enjoy - simply because of the gritty subject matter and maybe even because of the way it's written. But, it's SO different. Believe me when I say -  the author doesn't hold anything back . I think what hit me the most was knowing that there are actual people living this life everyday, all around us. *Heed my warning*  - this book is considered YA (I have no idea how this is even possible) but it's  extremely graphic  - I'm talking sex, abuse, drug-use and violence. If those things makes you cringe, you might want to walk away. This is a love story of sorts between a fourteen-year-old prostitute and a nineteen-year-old junkie. Yes, you read that right. It's love at first sight for Alexander when he lays eyes on Patti. Obviously, their relationship is anything but typical - they meet in a parking lot known for prostitution, after being dropped off by different johns. She sells her body to buy clothes and albums, while he does what he needs to for his next fix. They live in a small town that's flooded with drugs and people living rough lives, it's all really kind of tragic.  Throughout the entire book, I couldn't stop myself from feeling like Patti and Alexander's relationship was wrong on some level, dirty even. They were sweet together in some ways though, which only added to the mass confusion in my head. I'm an optimist, all the way, but even I couldn't see how they were gonna make it work. A tiny part of me still hoped they would find their way to New York, somehow. Even if just to get out of the situations they were both in. Alexander was what made this story special for me. His life was a total wreck and he did shitty things, but underneath it all, he was someone I grew to care about. The juxtaposition of him living such a crappy life, but being so sure he was destined to be a rockstar, was kind of stellar. And I couldn't get over all of the music references and his sense of style. It was hard watching him cave to his vices, over and over, but there were times he made me laugh. I'm dying to know though, was he really a great song writer? Did he wow the crowd like he thought, or was it all the drugs?!?! This book was unlike anything I've ever read. A story that I imagine will stick with me for awhile. ",
   'This book is discusting and has absolutely no redeeming qualities about it from the first page to the last page. The descriptions of the sexual encounters are just so wrong that I cannot help but to think the author left cutting edge and fell into I am going for broke. The supposed love story between the two main characters is a joke. If you enjoyed this book I have serious concerns about your morale character due to the graphic descriptions ie: violence, sex/anal sex, rape, sodomy and drug abuse. This book amounted to nothing but a attempt at shock value that failed terribly. My suggestion is that if you choose to read this book breeze through it prior to purchasing so that you can decide if you want to read 544 pages of vulgar language, anal sex/sex, violence, rape, sodomy all stemming from a rip roaring drug habit. But hey mabey I missed the point all together. This book could of never been published and we would of missed nothing. Could barely even finish.......',
   "I was very surprised to find that this book was about young teenagers hooked on drugs, and living a hard life. When i bought the book I'd expected it to be about a boy and a girl in school falling in love, like most teen-books. I agree that this is nothing like teen-books I've read. It is so violent in it's descriptions, however teens are doing this everyday. It was a fantastic book and Jason Meyers wrote it very well. The beginning is very confusing, and the ending lead a sense of dread in my heart. Others are very disgusted at this story, but I think the need to open up and accept the fact that this is a free country and that parts of this book is true. They think that the people are too young, but it's not far from the truth how todays world has changed drastically. I hope you pick it up. ",
   "Upon the first few words of this novel I began questioning how this book got published. The way the narrator talked made it seem like the author lacked talent. The story was okay but not as mind blowing as Exit Here, which is still why I have high hopes every time this author comes out with a new book. Half way thru the author kept dropping hints as to what was going on, so it wasn't as exciting when it actually happened. Although the ending was pretty crazy.",
   'I definitely understand what some people are saying by this book having no redeeming qualities. However, the only reason I somewhat enjoyed this book is because it explains a perception of life in a world I never knew existed. It definitely gave me another view that, unfortunately, is a reality for some people. ',
   '518 pages of complete bullshit. I had high hopes for this book until I was half-way through. But like a train wreck, I had to keep watching. Jason Myers is probably one of the most narcissistic writers ever, having enough bravery mentioning himself in his own novel. Chock full of hipsters and shitty music, this book was a fail. ',
   'Oh my god. That ending was just heart wrenching. ',
   "There's no way this should be under the YA genre. Don't get me wrong, I'm no prude when it comes to gritty books. But this was a bit over the top for a 14 year old to pick up and read. Decent storyline, a bit predictable - not dying to go out and read another Jason Myers novel. ",
   "Ugh. This book was a complete and utter mess. Alexander Franklin is a nineteen year old junkie loser, who wants to be a rock star in New York. He goes to the A-Lot, a pick-up location for prostitues, to make money to buy drugs, and on one of these pick-ups, he meets Patti Smith, a fourteen year old prostitute, and he instantly falls in love with her. However, Raymond Burke ruthlessly controls the town of Beaver Falls (I know, what kind of name is that?), and the police are in his back pocket, so when one of his goons named Lars, who wants to have Patti all for himself, gets pissed off that Patti wants to be with Alexander, they're love might not survive. I fell in love with Dead End last year, and was both equally shocked and delighted by how gruesome and dark it was, and how Jason Myers wasn't afraid to make his charcters suffer, as the ending proved. However, this book was so fucked up, and so ridiculous, and was more sex and hearing about the MC's past conquests than the actual story I relayed to you above. I hated the characters. Alexander was a misogynistic little pig, who cheats on Patti all the time, treats women like trash, every girl is a slut, he's a total rocker, and he's totally the shit, nobody can ever compare to him, and there's is nothing to like about him. Patti was selfish, a bit of a bitch, a liar, self-centered, yet I think I could kind of sympathize with her since her childhood is shit. The only character I kind of liked was Renee, but even then she was only a minor character with no depth/development. What was the plot again? Sexing it up everywhere, sucking dick,  slaying meatpits  (I was seriously disgusted by that), doing whoever whenever, and being totally in wuv with somebody after hanging out with them one freakin' time. Alexander also has complete sexual prejudices about Patti that truly sickened me. So, Patti having sex with somebody at age 12 is totally outrageous, but Alexander having sex at age 12 with his 15 year old babysitter is completely rad.  If I ever have to read the word rad, homey (people still use this word in a none-mocking way?), or meatpit again, I might throw myself out a window. The pacing is reasonably quick for a book clocking in at 518 pages, but my enjoyment was very little. I only appreciated that the characters weren't perfect (yet I still hated them), the overall premise, and the ending.  Oh, that ending. I even felt a little bit bad for Alexander. However, I feel that the ending is very easy to predict because of how Patti acts towards everything, and the tagline of the book.   Play or be played.   This book has no idea what the word subtle means. ",
   "I haven't finished this book yet, but from all of the reviews I've found on this site about this book, I had to post something. I don't really understand why most of the reviews rate the book 1 star just because of what the book is about. Okay, I get it, a lot of you felt uncomfortable, but it wouldn't be fair to an author for a book to be trashed just because of what the book is about. For starters, the book is about a drug addict who falls in love with a 14-year-old prostitute. That's literally written on the copyright page of the book. Even if you didn't know to look there for that particular description, it's very clear in the beginning of the book that he's a drug addict and she's a 14-year-old prostitute. With that being said, it's very obvious from the start this book is going to be disturbing. So really, it's not the author's fault because to me, he's saying if you don't like this kind of stuff, put the book down now. If you don't put the book down and continue to read it, then that's fine... But don't be surprised if the content is sexual or morally incorrect. And for the 16 and up comment... I started this book when I was 16, and I know several people that age who would read this book. Not all of us are ignorant to this kind of thing... In fact, when I found out what these characters do in this book, it made me never want to touch drugs or prostitution... So with Amazon's suggestion of 16 and up, I think the intention was to show teenagers what kind of life this is so they'll stray away from it. ",
   "Run the Game by Jason Myers is a book about a 19 year old young man named Alexander who meets a girl named Patti that is 5 years younger then him in the A-lot. When Alexander sees her for the first time its love at first site. But this love for Patti comes with a price because she is a hooker and and has a pretty messed up family who has abused her for most her life, however she is the toughest person hell ever meet. Alexander has to pay Burke in order to keep Patti. What I liked about the book is that there is great description and there is a great plot. The way Myers describes events and makes them relate to a young mans life. He also made this book a love it or hate it. If you're a person that is not really into graphic stuff and profane language you probably wont like this book. However this book will fall into the young adult category because this is what a lot of young men do and it relates to a lot of stuff that young men want to do. The only thing that i didn't really like about this book is the extreme language, other than that this book is a 9 out of 10. Overall this is a great book and I would highly recommend Run the Game. The perplexing twist in the plot and weird relativity makes it a page turner. Anyone that likes a kind of young adult book that doesn't mind a lot of cursing would totally dig this book. I would recommend this book to people that get into the mature stuff that this book talks about or people who know about this kind of life style. I'm glad i read this book.",
   "I haven't finished this book yet, but from all of the reviews I've found on this site about this book, I had to post something. I don't really understand why most of the reviews rate the book 1 star just because of what the book is about. Okay, I get it, a lot of you felt uncomfortable, but it wouldn't be fair to an author for a book to be trashed just because of what the book is about. For starters, the book is about a drug addict who falls in love with a 14-year-old prostitute. That's literally written on the copyright page of the book. Even if you didn't know to look there for that particular description, it's very clear in the beginning of the book that he's a drug addict and she's a 14-year-old prostitute. With that being said, it's very obvious from the start this book is going to be disturbing. So really, it's not the author's fault because to me, he's saying if you don't like this kind of stuff, put the book down now. If you don't put the book down and continue to read it, then that's fine... But don't be surprised if the content is sexual or morally incorrect. And for the 16 and up comment... I started this book when I was 16, and I know several people that age who would read this book. Not all of us are ignorant to this kind of thing... In fact, when I found out what these characters do in this book, it made me never want to touch drugs or prostitution... So with Amazon's suggestion of 16 and up, I think the intention was to show teenagers what kind of life this is so they'll stray away from it.",
   "Jason Myers is a GREAT author, but this book did him no justice. It was not a good book at all. Alexander, the main character, had no emotional attachment to anything except for maybe his penis (pardon me excuse me). All he talked about were drugs and sex. Let me know how he loved Patti after a few minutes of knowing her. They shared no connection. The sex in this book was downright uninteresting and mostly disgusting. The story didn't piece together the way that it should have. The characters were all the same, as well as the dialogue. Also, let me know why your language was so vulgar and unnecessary that I found myself wanting to rip the book in half. Exit Here and the Mission were mostly good books, so excuse me if I'm wrong for not enjoying this story. It was repetitive, disgusting, and there was no emotion.",
   "I believed It was an amazing heartbreaking tale....and first off I'm gonna say some people were right as being labelled a young adult novel..but at the same time , it should be... I mean most of these low reviews are basically Parents themselves. but as a young adult myself, I believe this give us a depiction of real life, because in real life, there are NO happy endings. But My opinion on the book is that I felt bad for Alexander in the ending, because he was blinded by love. But then again, he should have saw it coming. But all I'm saying is that this is a wonderful book and I recommend it. Jason Myers, if you're reading this. You have to continue writing.",
   "Horrendous story and writing. I wish I hadn't wasted my time on this book. Books should make you feel as if you are gaining knowledge, this book made me feel as if I was killing brain cells. Definitely will not be reading another Jason Myers book.",
   "I can't believe I read this crap!",
   'this book was so good until the last couple of chapters. I cant believe the ending went down like that it made me hate Jason for doing such a terrible thing',
   'Graphic yes pushes limit yes but overall good book ',
   "Listen, for all of you 1 star raters out there.... I mean. Run the Game is one of my favorite books of all time. Jason Myers may not be the most whimsical author, he may curse a lot, and it may be a gritty tale. My question for you is, what is it like to be a 19 year old junkie in a punk-rock band in love with a 14 year old hooker? The answer is exactly Alexander. The cursing, the drugs, the sex, the abuse. These taboo topics MAKE this book what it is. They make it a teen grunge novel, not a YA novel, not a realistic fiction novel. It's in a genre and cannot be judged outside of that genre! That's like saying a fantasy book isn't realistic enough. Ridiculous.  I will now give my two cents about this book.  Ultimately, it's a story that I feel like needed to be told, and this is why it's one of my favorite books ever. Jason Myers, the author, plays music and has dealt with (or deals with) addiction, which is why these two topics are hugely relevant in his books. He also writes poetry and songs, which are usually about his past lovers.  The love is not 'instant love'. Really, its not even love at all. It's a 19 year old high on coke who sees a cute girl and fantasizes about her. I think one of the big messages of this book is that real love DOESN'T happen like it happened to Patti and Alex!!! I cannot emphasize this more.  Honestly, this book seems like it drops off the deep end. You are reading along, rooting for the characters, happy for them. They come alive off the page and have extremely apparent personalities. Then, it all crumbles. Falling downhill, the characters you believed you knew so well turn on you. The book ends horribly, and I wonder if it's intended or if Myers just got tired of the story he was telling, realizing it would go nowhere. The story really does start to seem like day to day life of a 19 year old in a worn-down town. Personally, I like books that tell a daily life kind of story. It makes me happy that there are authors who can portray the emotions of normal life so well, without characters jumping on rooftops of fighting beasts. It's just honest and real, down to earth and wholesome while also being gritty. The ending mortifies the reader but is a good example that plans don't always work out and books don't have to end happily or with hope for a sequel.  Jason Myers writes very like myself (minus the cursing). His use of adjectives paints the picture just enough for the readers to get the idea but also imagine some things for themselves, which is a quality I love.  And while we are saying that it should be for 18+ audiences, honestly this book should not. It has very real topics that are experienced in a highschooler's everyday life. This stuff cannot be ignored. Adult ideas are what make this book appealing to its target audience. And we also must take into account how mature the author was at 16 versus a 16 year old now days. Myers could have been getting into this stuff at this age, and assumes that this is a kind of normal. I side with him here.  Mostly this is a response to you guys who dont like this book. not saying you cannot have an opinion, but please look deeper.  if you didnt like the book, then why did you finish it ;) ",
   "This is definitely a YA book in the way it's written, though, yes it deals with very mature themes like drugs and sex. It was a quick read that I was able to finish in a couple of days, not very deep or meaningful but some fast-paced gritty action that kept me entertained. It honestly reminded me a lot of my own teenage years in the way the characters were obsessed with what was cool, what music they were listening to and what they were wearing, and the way the days just kind of bled from party to party. I also recognized a lot of the music which was like a fun little Easter egg hunt. Overall though it was shallow and kind of stupid just like all of the characters.  I don't hate this book, but I don't love it. I think it's weird to have a book so heavily based in drug use, violence and obscene sex made specifically for teenage readers, but then again, it's teenagers that would think this book is really edgy and worthwhile, probably based on subject matter alone since it's just so shocking. I just hope there aren't any teenagers reading this that think people actually regularly spit into each other's mouths during sex because nobody does that. ",
   "Defiantly not a YA book. This was HEAVY as F*** honestly I'd read Exit Here and liked it enough to get another book from Jason. After reading this one, a few years back actually I have not picked up another one of his books since and probably won't.  This is my own personal opinion, I prefer not to read books that mentally f- with me. By the end of this book just closed it and put it in the donation pile. Personal preference. Nothing against Myers just not my thing. But if you like really raw and edgy and a bit f-Ed up. Than this is your jam. Keep in mind there are vividly graphic scenes... so mentally prepare yourself for something you can't “unsee”"],
  '_version_': 1748767598293549056}]