[{'id': '31956',
  'author': 'Deborah Davis',
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "The subject of John Singer Sargent's most famous painting was twenty-three-year-old New Orleans Creole Virginie Gautreau, who moved to Paris and quickly became the  it girl  of her day. A relative unknown at the time, Sargent won the commission to paint her; the two must have recognized in each other a like-minded hunger for fame.,Unveiled at the 1884 Paris Salon, Gautreau's portrait generated the attention she craved-but it led to infamy rather than stardom. Sargent had painted one strap of Gautreau's dress dangling from her shoulder, suggesting either the prelude to or the aftermath of sex. Her reputation irreparably damaged, Gautreau retired from public life, destroying all the mirrors in her home.,Drawing on documents from private collections and other previously unexamined materials, and featuring a cast of characters including Oscar Wilde and Richard Wagner, Strapless is a tale of art and celebrity, obsession and betrayal.",
  'genre': ['Nonfiction',
   'Art',
   'History',
   'Biography',
   'Art History',
   'Cultural',
   'France',
   'Historical',
   'Literature',
   '19th Century',
   'Womens',
   'Couture',
   'Fashion'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1440863046l/130002._SY475_.jpg',
  'isbn': '158542336X',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/130002.Strapless',
  'page_count': '262',
  'rating': 3.9,
  'review_count': 431,
  'title': 'Strapless: John Singer Sargent and the Fall of Madame X',
  'rating_count': 4679,
  'price': 18.44,
  'sensitivity': ['infidelity', 'death', 'war'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['hated',
   'accessible',
   'dying',
   'period',
   'contemporary',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'famous',
   'rich',
   'recommend',
   'brilliant',
   'fascinating',
   'spoiled',
   'rare',
   'fantastic',
   'compelling',
   'enjoyable',
   'favorite',
   'extra',
   'funny',
   'poor',
   'incredible',
   'feminist',
   'important',
   'detailed',
   'modern',
   'obsessed',
   'vapid',
   'wonderful',
   'popularity',
   'damage',
   'enigmatic',
   'shocking',
   'controversial',
   'average',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'sensual',
   'best',
   'great',
   'different',
   'edgy',
   'heart',
   'lovely',
   'promising',
   'remarkable',
   'special',
   'vivid',
   'struggling',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'serve',
   'downhill',
   'loved',
   'royalty',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'surprised',
   'magnificent',
   'spoilers',
   'familiar',
   'powerful',
   'beautiful',
   'captured',
   'original',
   'captivated',
   'attention',
   'absorbing',
   'entertaining',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["A fascinating story of the famous piece of art that now graces the walls of the Met, Madame X. It is a history of all those characters involved in its creation as well as a portrait of the era of its birth. Deftly told, this is a page-turning piece of nonfiction that will charm the strap off your shoulder even if you aren't an appreciator of art.",
   "I read this book in August 2008 and have been meaning to review it ever since. For shame. Most people know John Singer Sargent's infamous painting  Madame X  even if they don't know the name and have never heard of the artist because this painting has quite the sensational story attached to it. According to surrounding lore, Sargent initially painted  Madame X  with the right strap of her black gown slipping off of her shoulder.When the painting debuted at the 1884 Salon in Paris ( the place to have a painting displayed at the time and a good signifier of current or future artistic success) it created an uproar, so scandalous was the pose. Indeed, facing numerous charges of the painting's indecency, Sargent eventually repainted the strap sitting firmly, and properly, on Madame's shoulder. Pursuing my art history minor in New York City I had the amazing opportunity to see  Madame X  in person at the Metropolitan Museum. The painting has always had a special place in my heart for, if nothing else, the drama associated with its debut. So I was very pleased when a copy of Deborah Davis' book Strapless: John Singer Sargent and the Fall of Madame X (2004) fell into my lap. Part historical research, part biography, part social commentary, part feminist text, Deborah Davis handles a lot of material in a relatively small volume (320 pages with font of average size and relevant pictures included). One of the reasons Davis decided to research this particular painting and its subject is because so little information remains about Virginie Amelie Gautreau, her life, or how Sargent came to paint her scandalous portrait. While  Madame X  eventually catapulted Sargent into the artistic canon and toward immortality, the portrait likely led to Gautreau's ruin and her obscurity. In her book, Davis tries to set the record straight, portraying Gautreau as the powerful, savvy woman she was before a bare shoulder changed her social standing forever. My library system catalogs this book as a biography of John Singer Sargent, which for a lot of reasons is the logical choice. However, really, most of the book is spent looking at the life of Sargent's subject and patron: Madame Gautreau. The book traces Gautreau's family history, her migration from New Orleans to Paris (where she became a quasi-celebrity along the lines of Kim Kardashian or Paris Hilton virtually overnight at the tender age of twenty-three), and perhaps most interestingly just how much work went into being a beautiful woman in Paris in the 1880s. No details escapes Davis' examination as she looks at the clothing, finances, indeed the very persona Gautreau had to cultivate to live the decadent lifestyle she became accustomed to. The strong point in Strapless is when Davis sticks to such facts: how Gautreau lived, why Sargent would want to paint her, what happened at the Salon when  Madame X  debuted. Davis also expertly outlines the tenuous, and often stressful, patron-artisan relationships that Sargent and artists like him had to cultivate in order to eke out a living with their brush. The momentum flags when Davis veers into the hypothetical wondering if Sargent might have been in love with Gautreau, torn between her and one of his young proteges. While the theory is interesting, it does remain a theory very akin to the conspiracy theories so often found in research on the Titanic. That aside, Strapless is a remarkably well-done book. The thorough research shows through without dulling the writing. Davis' text is conversational and very accessible--more so, it must be said, than many writings found in the field of art history. An excellent book on art history for enthusiasts and art historians alike. You can find this review and more on my blog  Miss Print",
   '[ The art critic Roger Fry had reviewed Mme X twice - he first, 1905, raved about it but after he came under the spell of the avantgarde, he disdained it exclaiming that Sargent was “an upper-class tourist”.   (hide spoiler) ]',
   "I have recently discovered how much I love the paintings of John Singer Sargent (and also his contemporaries like Whistler and William Merritt Chase). My interest was first peaked when I read a book review of Sargent's Women. Learning the background of the artist's subjects make the works more significant. I realize now that is why some people are not interested in art. I took a trip to Europe with such a friend. I was so excited to see the architecture and famous works of art that I knew so much about. She found it all a bore. But then she did not have any prior knowledge to what she was looking at and it meant nothing to her. When I taught music in a grade school I learned that in order for a student to understand what you are trying to teach them, you must find out what they already know and build on that. Once you have built a foundation of prior knowledge you can then add new knowledge. As a teacher this was my goal. I exposed my students to as much music and literature and art as possible in order to inspire an appetite for the wonderful things of this world. All that to say, Strapless, like Sargent's Women, has given me the prior knowledge I need to truly enjoy Sargent's work. While Sargent's Women examined the lives of four of Sargent's portrait subjects, Strapless examines the life of one. And not only her but the entire backdrop of 19th century Parisian life, and also, to a lesser extent Americans and their reasons for living in Paris. The book starts in New Orleans where an old aristocratic family had plantations and wealth; Virginie Amelie Avigno was born into privilege and luxury. After the Civil War, her family deserted the South to reconstruct itself and settled in Paris where an American could easily live like royalty at half the cost and also find eligible husbands for beautiful daughters. Amelie soon became the belle of Paris, acquired a rich husband and with the freedom being a respectable, married woman afforded her, spent her days at balls, horse races, and every other social occassion Paris had to offer a lovely young woman. She created a stir wherever she went.  Considered the most beautiful woman in Paris, her arrival at any destination caused a stir and was recorded in all the newspapers.  Davis describes the glamorous climate of Paris. With the rise of the bourgeouis, shops were catering to the cosmetic demands of their new clientele. We see all the different tricks and methods women used to look beautiful. Amelie took to powdering herself with a pale, lavender powder she believed set her skin off to its most alluring. Also in Paris was a, as yet unknown but aspiring artist, John Singer Sargent. His career had been going well and his work had been accepted into the Salons for the last couple of years. He conceived of making a portrait of the most famous woman in Paris as a calculated business move to project his career to the heights he reached for. In short, things did not go as planned. The Paris public hated it. They felt the portrait was shocking, especially since the original version had Amelie's strap hanging off her shoulder. Her skin was described as  corpse-like . The newspapers had a field day. The woman who had so recently been worshipped was now despised. It was the end of Amelie's reign over Paris. But the beginning of Sargent's career. The notoriety helped propel his career to world fame while Amelie sunk into ignoble anonimity. Davis' account is thorough and fascinating. We learn about Parisian life, about an unknown Sargent, and the sad ending to a promising life. What is mostly sad to me, is that such a scandal would ruin a woman. Her entire life was centered around being adored. Even without the painting, she would have eventually aged out of the  beautiful young thing  stage. Apparently being the focus of attention was her only  rasion d'etre . She became a recluse and ultimately died alone, being estranged by that time from even her husband who only served as a financial vehicle at any rate. I conclude that Amelie was not only vain, but vapid. There are many beautiful young women who, when they aged, still managed to keep a bright social life, largely because they had the intellect to occupy themselves with worthwhile pursuits and good company, even if it wasn't an adoring company of young, besotted men.  In her thirties, Amelie tried to regain her fame. She had several more portraits made of herself, but none that incurred public interest. Her group of admiring men became older and older until she simply stayed home and out of public life. That is the greatest tragedy. A person who cannot move out of the past. Youth is so fleeting and Amelie never seemed to realize it. She did not even have the foresight to buy her portrait. Sargent repainted the strap to a more prim location and kept the painting in his studio for more than thirty years. After Amelie died, he sold it to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, where it hangs to this day. I have seen the painting, when I visited the Museum on many occasions, but I was not interested in American portraiture at the time so barely glanced at it. Now that I have built up my own prior knowledge, I would like to return and see the painting that started a one career and ended another.",
   "This topical book grabbed my attention because of the famous attention grabbing portrait on the cover. My attention was held as I learned more about John Singer Sargent and the Belle Epoque art world. The book begins with background on Virginie Amelie Avegno Gautreau, the “Strapless”, “Madame X”. From their Louisiana plantation, Amelie and her mother went to Paris after the Civil War. Her father had died at Shiloh. Without him and their slaves the fate of the plantation was uncertain. The family had property in Paris, spoke French and was set to find a husband for Amelie away from the turmoil of Reconstruction. In showing how the match was made, Deborah Davis takes the reader through French society at the dawn of the Third Republic. While there was more than needed on Georges Haussmann's rebuild of the city and what that meant for retail (the rise of the dept. store), the parts on fashion and society were interesting and essential to the narrative. There are good observations on the freedom from family that marriage bestowed on the teenaged Amelie and Padro who was twice her age. Amelie pushed the limits with her beauty and was perhaps in over her head in extra-marital affairs. She was both scheming and distracted when she chose and sat for the young John Singer Sargent for her portrait. Sargent seems to be the Annie Liebowitz of his day. In contrast to his peers who are beautifying their subjects, Sargent dressed and posed his to bring out their personalities. Davis says the famous portrait was a collaboration with Amelie's full support and approval. While the important annual show where it made its debut had nudes, this painting (“edgy” for its day), created a stir. The rising prominence of both the painter and the socialite was curtailed. Davis explores the fallout from both a social and artistic perspective; How Sargent, in the long run, prevailed and Amelie, eventually, retreated. I expect that there is more story to be told about Amelie. While the reaction was harsh, there may have been reasons for paybacks for this American upstart in Parisian life. As a teen, new to society, she surely made social blunders, perhaps of the kind that came back to haunt. Along the way the reader meets great characters such as Dr. Samuel Jean Pozzi and Sargent's parents and encounters Henry James with Isabella Stewart Gardner. Most of the paintings referred to are reproduced either in color or b & w (not usually the case in books like this). The Index worked for everything I checked. At the end you learn where these paintings now reside and how they got there and something on the people encountered in the narrative. Anyone interested in Sargent or Belle Epoque art and society will want to read this engaging book.",
   "This is a fast read and filled with as much gossip and dish as one of those Entertainment Tonight or current media celeb track t.v. programs. Our Amelie is Beyoncé and Adele combined to/for the erudite, salon, wealthy socialite  everybody who counts  crowd. The world of the Belle Epoque.  This would be 4 star for all of those readers more interested than I in art history and patterns of social popularity and perception held during this late 19th century European period. For me, 3.5 star at least to be fair, but I just could not round it up. Too much of the associative nuance in many paged listings of lovers and attachments with multiple marriage go rounds to deflate my interest between the bigger spoilers.  What really captured me though were the travel aspects and location variations! Especially Sargent's birth family's story. And their Creole roots gone back to Europe for 33 year long temporary trips. And these were not even the wealthiest of wealthy. Moving huge households season after season- while birthing a new family member or burying another. The entire entitled worldview! And few work at all- majority of the female gender in this salon world do anything that would be described with that word today. Unless you included getting clothes/fashion changed for appropriate reasons up to 8 times per day a definition of work. Just the misplaced strap and a swan neck as givens! She absolutely had to be one of the best marketing/ P.R. people of her epoch. Enough that all this time later books being written! It was a better ploy than Michael Jackson's glove. But then he had incredible talent for performance. She seems to have had a gift for pleasing and being noticed. And yet with less attention, then becoming a recluse after an  old  age of 40? And these people were supposedly so smart?  Easy and researched read to an explanation of some paintings that are heralded and famous. The paintings themselves, and the photos were 4 to 5 star. Love that  Gust of Wind . So much of the lives of these painters, socialites, displayers- not as much.",
   "I was expecting this book to be historical fiction, and was pleasantly surprised to find it a well-researched, completely factual account of John Singer Sargent, the woman known as Madame X, and the scandal caused by a fallen strap. In the late 1800s, John Singer Sargent submitted a portrait of Amelie Gautreau, a beautiful Parisian socialite, to the annual Paris Salon, which was a yearly exhibition of art. The painting showed Amelie standing at a table wearing a slinky black dress and looking to her left. The left strap of her dress had fallen off her shoulder, while the right one stayed in place. When the Salon visitors saw this painting, displayed among works of art depicting full-frontal nudity, they went absolutely batshit crazy. And not in a good way. Davis's book explores the personal histories of Amelie, Sargent, and their respective families, as well as Sargent's career and Amelie's rise and fall in Parisian society. All of it is fascinating, although admittedly I could've done without the personal histories of Amelie's grandparents and everyone Sargent painted. That being said, they were all fascinating people and I still liked reading about them, although the book would've been just as good without their stories. ",
   "In la Belle Epoque Paris people lined up for art exhibitions the way we do today for blockbuster movies. In this case John Singer Sergeant caused a scandal by painting something that was much more than just a portrait of a beautiful woman, and Paris didn't like it. It almost ruined him, it did ruin his model, and I still want to ask him why he put the strap back up. Go  here  to see the portrait and then go read the book.",
   "Another piece of nonfiction by the same author as GUEST OF HONOR(the Booker T. Washington book) above. In this one, author investigates the background, history, and life of the woman who posed for this well-known John Singer Sargent portrait.  You might think, “Oh, so this is kind of like 'Girl with a Pearl Earring'!” (One coworker who I was talking do said this.) I would have to say, “Not really.” GWaPE is definitely historical nonfiction but this one is definitely nonfiction and a lot more based in fact, history, etc. I found it much more enjoyable than GWaPE. This book actually dovetails really well with the David McCullough book (THE GREATER JOURNEY: AMERICANS IN PARIS) b/c it talks about the same time period, many of the same characters, and, particularly, on the Americans who were flocking to Paris in the 2nd half of the 19th century. John Singer Sargent was an American (in name; in reality, he grew up as an expat all over Europe) and so was the model of this portrait, Amelie Gautreau, whose family was originally from New Orleans. All in all, if you like history, French, Franco-Prussian War, the Belle Epoque, art history. . or any or all of these. . you may like this one too!  The book is very interdisciplinary and the author will go off on a tangent explaining Wagner, his wife, the castle on the Rhine which inspired a certain song, how John Singer Sargent met Wagner, etc. So I could see this bugging some readers, but I really liked the broad-brush overview of everything and how it ties together a lot of different subjects which are often taught/studied separately (art, history, music, military history) etc and puts them all together so you can see the unifying themes which were all going on at the time and affecting all of these at the same time period in history. ",
   "The actual title of this fascinating book is  Strapless - John Singer Sargent and the Fall of Madame X.  After I purchased it at a museum book store, I noticed the back cover had it listed as a  history,  not a  biography.  And that is exactly what it is - a history of the 1880s Parisienne lifestyle and its artists and patrons.  There are several books out there about the American painter, one of them historical fiction. I am glad I chose Deborah Davis's book because it is extremely well researched and interesting to read. At the beginning it appears to be a biography of Virginie Amelie Gautreau, a Creole who lived in Louisiana before moving to Paris. But soon the author takes the reader back more than a century ago to the Paris of wealthy patrons and struggling artists.  The story of the painting known as  Madame X  has intrigued art lovers for years. Davis is so adept at incorporating the details into an interesting story of a woman who sought fame and gained notoriety. Sargent, at one time a heralded artist, was castigated by the Paris Salon and the newspapers of the times for his  indecent  portrait of a society woman.  Today  Madame X  hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. I've seen it dozens of times but my next visit will be enhanced by this wonderful book. Whether you are an art lover or not,  Strapless  is a story rich in history and detail and the ways in which public opinion can affect a reputation.",
   "Fascinating book about the John Singer Sargent portrait  Madame X  and the woman behind it, Amelie Gautreau ( the unpaintable beauty and hopeless laziness of Madame Gautreau ). Not only is the time period fascinating (love the Belle Epoque) but the cast of characters seem more from fiction than non-fiction. It's mind-boggling that this portrait caused so much scandal with its loose strap when Parisians had infidelity hours (4-5 - get your affairs on!) Not to mention, I'd think Sargent's  Dr. Pozzi at Home  work would've caused a much bigger stir. Also interesting is how the portrait of Mme Gautreau eventually developed a cult following just as she was starting to fade from the spotlight (read: she was aging). Ultimately when he sold it to the Met, he erased her name from the title and Madame Gautreau became Madame X, denying her the chance to be forever immortalized, which is all she really ever wanted. Kind of sad, really, especially since she spent so much time and money trying to get new portraits made to replace this one.",
   " This book entered my life on pure chance. I had read  The Greater Journey: Americans in Paris  last summer (2012) and LOVED it for its in-depth portrayal of Americans in Paris during the Belle Epoque (and a little before and after that time as well). One of the most fascinating aspects of the book (for me) was the tidbit about the portrait of Madame X by John Singer Sargeant. McCullough talks about the controversy of the painting but did not go into as much detail as I would have liked but nevertheless I finished the book and assumed that my knowledge of the painting of Madame X would solely be internet-based. Then a few days after I arrived at college, I found this book at the campus book sale. So I naturally had to buy it. I read a chapter here or there periodically (when I had a little free time from schoolwork and extracurriculars) and finally finished it a few months ago. I quite enjoyed  Strapless . I was actually surprised that Madame Gautreau was so self-absorbed, I'm not sure how to explain it but before this book I would have thought Sargeant (or any artist for that matter) would want to paint beautiful but also intellectually stimulating people. Or at least people who were actually doing things. And I guess Amelie was doing things, she was the IT Girl in 1880s Paris and as Davis shows it was not an easy job. I liked reading about her ridiculous, looks-obsessed world. And the irony that Gautreau's name is no longer associated with (now) one of the most well-known paintings of all time, she who sought immortality of her beauty, is both sad and funny.  I think this book gives a great introduction to the Belle Epoque and I loved how everything tied back together (meaning the tangents on history and profiles of historical figures). The author explores Amelie and Sargeant's worlds, the other people Sargeant painted, the important figures in Amelie's life, but she never lost sight of the purpose of the book. Everything always came back to Madame X by Sargeant. I never mind when history books get off topic because I don't think its ever possible to truly get off topic when its history-related. This was my first foray into the world of art history and I found it both entertaining and engaging so I hope to re-enter that world, I'm open to recommendations. An absorbing, accessible glimpse into the history behind one of the most famous paintings and eras (the Belle Epoque) of all time.",
   "This was a very enjoyable little book about the mystery woman who is Sargent's Madame X. It is not a great biography but it is a good read. It is particularly resonant as there is much to compare the flamboyance of the Belle Époque to that of today and the ostentation of the 1% and its wannabes. A darker side to the Belle Époque was the fascination with  true spectacle  and the grim underside. In addition to sensational newspaper headlines, a wax museum diorama of the most spectacular headlines from history, the morgue functioned as a museum of sorts.  As many as a million visitors would walk through the viewing rooms each year, horrified or thrilled--or both, but what they saw.  This fascination with  reality  did not pertain to art where classical and virginal nudes were accepted and honored but real  naked  renderings were deplored.  Curiously, anatomical reality in art was apparently a horrifying concept to the same men and women who lined up to see bodies at the morgue.  The real Madame X, Amelie Gautreau may have been the original  It  girl, a  professional beauty , the role model for the Paris Hiltons and Kardashian fame-whores who embarrass our culture today. An individualistic beauty who defied conventions and leveraged alabaster skin, perfect, rounded shoulders with a voluptuous, yet slender carriage  La Belle Gautreau  caused a spectacle and traffic jams when out and about and had a bevy of admirers and followers clamoring to see and be near her. Her creation of herself was her occupation and avocation.  Sargent was the promising new portraitist and star of the Salon. His painting of her...her arrogance, statuesque pose, pointed noise aloft, the artifice of her, the turn of her arm and dropped strap of her daring dress created a scandal that effectively ended the reign of  La Belle Gautreau.  Her efforts to recreate her allure after the scandal failed. And when Madame X earned its place as a remarkable piece of portraiture as social commentary her  physical splendor had totally disappeared  and she retreated into virtual seclusion.  With every exhibition, the portrait was winning new supporters and growing more renowned. Amelie, by contrast, was fading.  The beauty who had once lived for and in front of the mirror to attend to every detail of her carefully crafted appearance had all of her mirrors removed; she could not bear to see herself.  A cautionary tale of the perils of fame built on a foundation of superfice, artifice and cultivated beauty",
   "An elegant little number that delicately walks the line between total froth and deep background. It deals with a painter whose personal life is suggestive but enigmatic and a model who was narcissistic and hedonistic and was totally surprised when a painted strap ruined her life. Davis offers the background we need to understand why a simple fallen strap could cause a scandal in an era when nudity in painting was accepted. Since the two characters are cosmopolitan, we learn a lot about Louisiana after the civil war and about American expatriates like Sargent's parents and Henry James. It's hard to understand the aftermath of Oscar Wilde's imprisonment and the effect it had on gay people of the time. Though it is fairly obvious that Sargent had gay tendencies, his lack of documented sexual partners is a puzzlement for our era. This book sent me to other sources about Sargent, and, more importantly to a site which has images of over seven hundred of his portraits, landscapes, and sketches. The lad had talent, a facility with the brush that may not have assured personal happiness. ",
   "   Excellent book which explores the life of John Singer Sargent and his model Amelie Gautreau who was the subject of the infamous Madame X portrait. The book captures the flavor of Paris during the time of the Belle Époque. I was very pleasantly surprised by this book and found it both informative and interesting. I read it electronically and found myself frequently searching for images of the paintings they referenced. The black and white poor quality images that accompanied the book certainly didn't do them justice. I had read The Greater Journey by David McCullough which gives a good perspective on this period as well as on Sargent, but this book allowed me to focus on a specific band of time more intensively. Sargent remains a bit of a mysterious figure, more defined by his work than his personal life. This one episode was perhaps the only one in his life which deeply challenged his successful veneer and as such it is interesting to see how he responded to it.",
   "This is the story of John Singer Sargent, his rise to popularity and the controversial work of   Madame X , which saw his brief decline. The book isn't merely about the painting  Madame X , but also touches on the life of Virginie Amélie Avegno Gautreau, the subject of the piece of art. What I found fascinating about the story were the details that created a vivid background of the people that shaped Sargent as an artist. The book also included sketches and images of Sargent's work, bringing more life to the story. My constructive criticism for the book is the way the chapters were organized, especially at the end of the book. The book took a linear approach and I thought the book would benefit from a different approach at the conclusion, one that would feature the minor characters earlier in the conclusion and end with Sargent and the painting.",
   'Strapless is the story of Amelie Gautreau, John Singer Sargent and the painting known to the world as Madame X. The book is so well written you feel like you are right there in the salons and art studios of Paris watching events unfold instead of reading them in a book. The detailed research provides insight into all the factors that led to the portrait of Amelie causing such scandal among the art community and the aristocracy, but never turns into a lecture of facts devoid of emotion.',
   "This book just grew and grew into an interesting enjoyment of the lives of the subject, and painter, the damnation of the painting, the down hill slide of Madame X and the rise of John Singer Sargent as America's greatest Artist to date. the story just unfolds so graciously with a cast of every important personality in the field of art on both sides of the Atlantic coming together into the grip of one great work of art that is still admired today. I did love it!",
   "I loved this book. I picked it up randomly at a used book shop because I love John Singer Sargent and I enjoy history. I thought it was very well written and extensively researched. The story was very enjoyable and didn't feel like nonfiction history. I'd recommend it for anyone who loves art, Paris, John Singer Sargent or history. ",
   'I rarely give 5 stars but this book deserves it. It is a nonfiction book about the painter John Singer Sargent. It reads like a novel. I could not put it down.',
   "Viewing the amazing watercolors by John S. Sargent gave me the nudge I needed to read this autobiography of both the artist, John Singer Sargent, and the person captured in the famous Madame X portrait. Virginie Amelie Gautreau was an American expatriate living in Paris at the time Jon Sargent was gaining prominence as a portraitist, having had successive impressive showings at the annual Salon in Paris. Amelie Gautreau was the 'It' girl of Parisian society in the late 1800s and lived for ostentation, non-stop parties and lavish spending. She was known for her alabaster skin and her beauty. The paparazzi of the time followed her every move and reported on them accordingly. She had famously declined invitations from many a painter to sit for them, but she agreed to sit for Sargent. It was a difficult sitting and Sargent faced more challenges with this portrait than he had with others. He actually painted a second portrait of Amelie Gautreau which he thought was better than the original, but didn't finish it, having been persuaded that he should show the original in the Salon, and that it was one of his masterpieces. The original Madame X was not received well at all at the exhibition. Viewers were scathing with their reviews, attacking Sargent for the cadaver-like hue to her skin and that with one strap of her dress hanging off her shoulder, that the painting was pornographic. Ironical considering the nudes also exhibited that year were highly praised. The negative reaction to the painting affected Amelie Gautreau as well. She became reclusive for a spell and then she commissioned more portraits of herself, seeking to undue the damage she perceived she suffered from the Madame X portrait. Alas, none of the subsequent portraits were pleasing, nor did they propel her back up to the pedestal she had fallen from. Amelie was aging and she did not want to accept that. Sargent's life was somewhat nomadic. His parents traveled across Europe, mainly because his mother did not like to stay in one place for too long, but they were supportive of their son's talent and provided him with opportunities to hone his talent. Sargent's rise as a portraitist was meteoric and coupled with a nice nature, he gained many friends, both among other artists and patrons alike. Up until his Madame X portrait, he had been lauded as a brilliant star and there were many who sought him out to paint portraits of themselves or of their family members. The negative reception to Madame X was devastating. For the longest time, he kept that painting and wouldn't sell it. It seemed to serve as a reminder to him that he had once failed spectacularly. He did recover from that set back and went on to paint many other portraits and landscapes.  What's sad is that while Sargent and Madame X have both remained famous, the sitter of the portrait, Amelie Gautreau, faded into obscurity.",
   "I'm going easy on this review partly because it was a very entertaining read and made my lunch break at work more enjoyable and partly because I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that Davis's writing wasn't half as vacant as I expected it to be from her bio on the back.  Strapless is not, as others have commented, a particularly deep or scholarly work. It's a light, entertaining read for those already familiar with Sargent's works who wish to know a little more about one of his most famous subjects. While I would recommend the book to anyone looking to find out more about one of the most infamous painted works in modern art, while I was reading through the text I found myself thinking time and time again that a person who knows a bit more about other artists, painters and musicians of the time will get more out of this. After all, I doubt the average  Joe  on the street will understand what she means when she makes a comparison between the scandals surrounding both Madam X and Manet's Le déjeuner sur l'herbe. However I can't imagine this would hinder anyone's appreciation of the book.  I was very pleased with the amount of research Davis has put into her book and even though I consider myself to be a huge Sargent fan I found even a few tidbits of information that I hadn't known before. For someone who has their background in screen writing she also managed to stay blissfully free of the trap that so many other pop historians fall into - superimposing her own feelings about people onto certain events and situations. Davis does a find job of sticking to facts and even took the time to rereview several of her peers who had previously written on Sargent in order to debunk a few glaring errors in their research.  My only complaint about this book is that she seems to have trouble making it all mesh together. We jump from one story to the next, from one fact to the next without any connective tissue between them to flesh out the body of work. And while Davis obviously did her homework at times it seems that she did it a little too well. An entire passage in the beginning of the book is dedicated to the rise of Paris's first department store with out apparent meaning or connection to the story at hand. But really when all is said and done Davis does deserve her due and for choosing a subject that would inevitably be scrutinized so closely by so many people, and she has yet to do disservice to her readers. Four stars well earned.",
   "This book is about the famous painting of Madame Virgnie Amelie Avango Gautreau painted by John Singer Sargent in the 1880's in Paris. She,a beauty of French ethenticity, was deemed to be the epitome of true French beauty in her figure, fashion and her grand style. Madame Gautreau was born in Louissana and lived a spoiled life on the family's plantation. Her father's death changed her financial circumstances and she fled to Paris to make her way in French high society. At nineteen she married wealthy Pierre Gautreau in Paris. John Singer Sargent, the already famous painter and portraitist, was so captivated by her regal beauty, that he finally convinced her to allow him to paint her. When the painting was exhibited at the famous Paris Salon around 1884 it caused an uproar. It was reported to be scandolous and indecent, and ultimately hurt Sargent's reputation and ruined Madame Gautreau's social standing. It is a magnificent painting showing her standing in a very haughty pose with her head turned to the side, her body erect, her long beautiful neck straining to hold her head high. Her skin is white as alabaster and almost looks translucent against the brown background. Her perfect slim figure is tightly wrapped in a shiny black satin evening dress. Her gorgeous decollete is enhanced by one of the thin jewelled straps falling downn off her shoulder. The fallen strap turned this portrait from merely being sensual to being viewed as pornographic. It signalled that sex had taken place. The portrait from then on was simply known as  Madame X', even after Sargent painted the strap back on her shoulder. The painting now hangs at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. This is a wonderful story about fascinating personalities and times. ",
   "I really enjoyed reading this biography, which was at at least as much about John Singer Sargent as about “Madame X,” the painting and the woman whose portrait it is (Virginie Amélie Avegno Gautreau). I've just recently read the historical novel about Madame Gautreau ( I Am Madame X  by Gioia Diliberto, which I greatly enjoyed, and then discovered that this biography was published just a year later.  Overall, it's a sad story, a tragedy really. Amélie Gautreau may be faulted for her single-minded pursuit of beauty and adoration, but she had been raised to believe that was her looks were her only asset (though she was an accomplished pianist) and her only path to happiness. But beauty doesn't last and a woman isn't desirable for all that long. Besides, fans are as fickle as lovers and reputations rise and fall.  Beyond the stories of Sargent, Gautreau, and many other personalities that touched their lives, the book provides an enthralling look at Belle Époque Paris, roughly 1870 to 1914. I learned a great deal about the artists and art world of those days. A good read!",
   "This is probably my favorite book of the story behind the scenes of great art. I loved everything about this book: the details of John Singer Sargent's childhood as an ex pat. The fabulous story of Virginie Gatreau who, as a child, fled the dying confederacy with her mother only to find herself climbing the social ladder in Paris. Most fascinating of all was how the famous painting of Madame X came about, how and why it scandalized the French salon and how that painting almost brought Sargent to ruin and forced him to flee to England where he was able to resume his career on the basis of his talent for portraiture which overrode the scandal. All in all, a great story including history and art and biography.",
   'All it took was a fallen strap to bring down a woman and her artist. Virginie Amelie Avegno Gautreau is Madame X. John Singer Sargent is the artist. A long forgotten French Creole beauty, who married a man double her age, and made his fortune in bat guano, along with an American artist who studied in France and became one of the worlds great portraitists, caused one of the 19th centuries greatest art scandals. And then everyone forgot. This is a fantastic look at that great scandal, the woman, and the artist.',
   "Interesting and engaging social and historical background on the artist, subject and their relationship as well as the contemporary Parisian scene. I thoroughly enjoyed it and can't wait for my next revisit to the Met to look at Madame X with fresh and better educated perspective.",
   "One of the most compelling pieces of non-fiction I've read! I loved the backstory of artist and subject and I couldn't wait to see what happened when their paths met. ",
   "  Madame X  about John Singer Sargent and his famous portrait subject. Its very good, and you can get through it at a brisk pace, but i found there were so many wonderful places, people and objects referred to thati was stopping to google them constantly since the book sadly has few pictures of anything it describes. And my god, a biography of Sargent needs to be written by someone who understand relationships between men, of which there are many kinds, and there are also many, many kinds of sexual relationships. Sargent was gay gay gay gay GAY. This authors reading of Sargent's relationships with both men and women is borderline dimwitted, glossing over the obvious as if she had spent her life in some sheltered convent! It's a naive take on Sargent's personal life and I wondered at times if it was written in the 1960s. No completely heterosexual man ever painted other men like that. The author muses that he may have been very repressed, absolute nonsense, I'm sure he missed out on nothing in the sex and romance department, but was careful not to expose his inner private life at a time when it could have landed him, and many others like him, in jail or out of a job. Sure, the concept of the gay man and his lifesatyle we know today was in its infancy then, but it was most certainly not fantasy nor rare. If only Merchant Ivory were still making those big grand sweeping historical films, this tale is the perfect subject. Everything I love happened in the 1880s, when in my humble opinion, humanity reached its zenith and has just gone downhill ever since. I give the book 5 stars for its subject matter, but not for the very very naive sounding opinions therein.",
   "Three and a half stars This is the story of a piece of art and the people whose lives were adjacent to it. It's well written and an intriguing mix of biographies, art history and a chance to visit the glamours of the late 19th century art scene. Perhaps it's because I hardly knew anything about any of it, but I found it a novel experience. "],
  '_version_': 1748767598668939264},
 {'id': '32667',
  'author': 'Carl Hiaasen',
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "NEW YORK TIMES, BESTSELLER, Hysterically funny...Hiaasen at his satirical best.  - ,USA Today,Two honeymooners wake up early, make love twice, and brace themselves for a spectacle they won't be watching from the sidelines. A seductive con artiste stumbles into a scam that promises more cool cash than the lottery. A shotgun-toting mobile home salesman is about to close a deal with disaster. A law school dropout will be chasing one Gaboon viper, a troop of storm-shocked monkeys, and a newfound love life, while tourists by the thousands bail from the Florida Keys. We're now entering the hurricane zone, where hell and hilarity rule. And in the hands of the masterful, merciless Carl Hiaasen, we're going to have some weather.",
  'genre': ['Fiction',
   'Humor',
   'Mystery',
   'Crime',
   'Thriller',
   'Comedy',
   'Contemporary',
   'Audiobook',
   'Mystery Thriller',
   'Adult'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1435608425l/13061._SY475_.jpg',
  'isbn': '446677167',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13061.Stormy_Weather',
  'page_count': '388',
  'rating': 3.95,
  'review_count': 892,
  'title': 'Stormy Weather',
  'rating_count': 15345,
  'sensitivity': ['confinement',
   'violence',
   'gore',
   'torture',
   'death',
   'snakes',
   'profanity',
   'plague'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['popular',
   'unique',
   'twisted',
   'complex',
   'circus',
   'top',
   'flawed',
   'predictable',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'horrific',
   'recommend',
   'magic',
   'hilarious',
   'bizarre',
   'hate',
   'classic',
   'enjoyable',
   'favorite',
   'beloved',
   'funny',
   'quirky',
   'important',
   'lacks',
   'obsessed',
   'modern',
   'eccentric',
   'blackmail',
   'shocked',
   'damage',
   'worst',
   'complicated',
   'entertained',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'sad',
   'waste',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'different',
   'deliver',
   'heart',
   'spooky',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'sweet',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'redemption',
   'torture',
   'cynical',
   'witty',
   'wonderfully',
   'subtle',
   'disappointing',
   'propaganda',
   'captivated',
   'attention',
   'entertaining',
   'sexy',
   'botched',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ['Disappointing. I must be feeling generous. 2 of 10 stars',
   'This book was like reading a tabloid, only I cared less about the people between the covers.',
   "Stormy Weather  follows Carl Hiaasen's usual fomula, with his normal cast of characters. The confused female victim of the greedy jerk rescued by the  crazy  recluse and the caring, law-enforcement hero. The story takes place in the Florida Everglades, as usual, and contains the author's requrired amount of environmental  preachiness.  If Hiaasen's books are all so predictable, why do I like reading them so much? Because he is an incredibly clever writer with a dark, twisted sense of humor that I truly enjoy. Because his stories move along at the perfect pace, with the right amount of satire and sarcasm and incredibly unique characters that you either want to get to know, or love to hate.",
   "Yes, there is a theme to the Hiaasen books and if you've read one, you will be able to draw parallels to them all. Luckily, some of the things they have in common are that they are deliciously bitingly satiric, often crazily funny and surely greatly entertaining! The third appearance of Skink is no exception and the 'hero' in this one, the complex Augustine (who juggles real skulls as relaxation/meditation) is a great complement to the ex-governor. ",
   '3.7 stars. Very strange crime fiction, borderline ridiculous but some very funny moments. An author I definitely want to read more from if I find his books somewhere',
   "When I joined GR, I mistakenly thought I had read this book and gave it four stars. I was wrong - which I realised when I stumbled upon the book at the Lifeline Bookfair in Canberra. I've now actually read the novel and upgraded it to five stars. Carl Hiassen has not dissapointed me yet. This is my kind of book. It has zany characters that you really do love or hate and understand, a funny plot as intricately woven as a fine basket and an underlying message - that is not in your face and you can choose to see it or not. You just really know when you read a Carl Hiassen novel that the really bad guys will get their comeuppance. It leaves us with a great sense of satisfaction on top of all the laughs we've had on the way.",
   "Hilarious as usual, and very much entertained by their dialogues which came out so natural. At one point I wasn't sure where the story was heading, regardless it was a good ride. I love all his colorful characters whether they are the good guys or crooks. ",
   'This book was so funny and the characters were so different. I did not know this was a series but I love the crazy, uber intelligent, gross, scrupulous character that Carl Hiaasen created in Skink (ex-governor). Florida has just had a devastating hurricane and between the people that are homeless and the vultures that come there to scam them, CH weaves a tale that is hysterical and has a balanced redemption. If your up for a riotous romp through the Everglades with a wonderfully clever, kooky cast then this just may be for you. ',
   "Very dark frenetic humor with a superabundance of ridiculous characters on the margins of society. I guess one could consider the police officers normal....sort of. Very funny. Would make a wild movie with lots of slapstick and insane situations. I wouldn't want to read a lot of books like this, but Stormy Weather was a good experience for me.  Set in Florida. Is everyone in Florida like this?",
   "Fool me twice, shame on me. What on earth was I thinking taking on a second installment by the same author responsible for writing  Star Island ? As if that calamitous wonder wasn't bad enough, this glutton for punishment nevertheless vowed to forge his way through  Stormy Weather  simply because it was sitting there on his desk for the taking. Don't know why there's no sun up in the sky. This time the author scrambles a muddle of cartoonish characters whose lives intersect implausibly in the immediate aftermath of destruction and mayhem wreaked by an unnamed hurricane upon South Florida. Bonnie and Max, two New York newlyweds honeymooning in Orlando, opt to head south straight into the heart of the devastation to survey and document the damage and displacement. Max is soon kidnapped by Skink, a misanthropic missing ex-governor and erstwhile environmental vigilante who lives off the marshy backwoods of Florida's Everglades and Keys, simply because Skink despises Max for videotaping the ruination.  While Max is in the wild enduring torture at the hands of his morally ambiguous captor who has forced him to wear an electroshock collar, his brand-new wife takes up with the dreamy Augustine--a freewheeling, ruggedly adventuresome and independently wealthy hunk--who represents some of the traits Bonnie spontaneously decides are absent in her days-old marriage. Within moments, and without any other apparent justification, this just-married bride has fallen for somebody entirely new, for whom she leaves her downtrodden husband thus freeing herself to seek unknown thrills. Come again? The seductive Edie and deformed-jaw Snapper are yet two more unsavory characters in this unruly circus whose aim is to defraud the Midwest Casualty company for more than two hundred grand by posing as beneficiaries who have gone missing due to the storm. These two will execute their plans by resorting to deception, threats, violence, and other criminal activities--any means necessary to get what they want. Their stratagems go awry, however, as they soon become entangled with the others as well as with cops, insurance adjustors, crooked roofers, hookers, and other oddballs who get caught up in all the hijinks. Enduring this was like being sentenced to solitary confinement to watch the entire Wagner's Ring Cycle on repeating loop, except it's populated by talentless dunderheads from a season of Sally Jessy Rafael. I counted down the pages, one by one, unto the inglorious end. It's filled with an array of crimes committed with an utter lack of regard for human life or decency. The author inexplicably idealizes his Skink character although he is neither heroic nor sympathetic, and seems to relish Skink's untethered individualism that disrespects any civil code or law of man in favor of his own set of ideals. The merry-go-round of lust and greed along with an unending string of profanity and gratuitous depredation characterizes, well, just about everyone in this book's world. If the author's intention is to prevent tourism and growth from descending upon his beloved South Florida, putting out this kind of propaganda should go a long way towards making that happen. It makes for a tedious read and absolute waste of time. This book is awful! What's beyond comprehension is the advertising soundbites featured on the cover by reputable outlets the likes of The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine, which blazon  Hilarious!   Raucous Good Fun!  and  Positioning the Author to Become This Country's Premier Satirist!   What? Let me repeat that . . . What?!  There is absolutely NOTHING funny about this book. The closest it comes to producing so much as a chuckle is the occasional description here or there that hints at wry observation, such as when Max's Madison Avenue firm takes on advertising for an eccentric-Mormon-family-owned business seeking to revive its root beer brand that had peaked in market share back in 1962. The irony is the disdain this author willingly seethes about the supposedly shallow and cynical advertising industry in light of the misleading marketing ads featured so prominently on his own book's cover with the unmistakable intention of shilling endless copies to unwitting masses of buyers. I will not repeat my mistakes by reading anything more by this author. Note to self: Checking something out from the library imposes absolutely no obligation for you to spend any more time completing it. Amazingly, if returned promptly, the library WILL take it back. And here's the catch . . . the library won't even charge you to take rubbish like this off your hands!",
   "Carl Hiassen has a satiric edge second to none, as he provides characters and plots that bring to light, make that  spotlight,  the human vices and societal ills that plague all places, but especially the state of Florida. As Hiassen said in a recent speech,  they (reprobates and crazies)all come here (Florida). For those of us who speak fluent sarcasm and appreciate nothing better than witty sarcasm, Hiassen's novels, and Stormy Weather certainly, make our joy meters tingle in a most pleasurable way. The characters in Stormy Weather come together in Miami in the usual Hiassen convoluted manner following a major hurricane that has devastated the area. There are bound to be scores of kind-hearted volunteers and honest repair businesses extant in Miami at that time. This story is not about them. Hiassen shows us the sleazy, greedy vultures of opportunity when disasters strike. That's not saying that there aren't some good, honest characters in the book, albeit some slightly off-centered ones. Again, we lovers of quirky people/characters rejoice. Populating this novel are an ex-governor, with a mission for protecting his beloved Florida, who left society and now makes his home in the swamp eating roadkill; two low-level con artists, one of whom shows a penchant for violence and the other habors a Kennedy fantasy; several greedy and reprehensible men involved in home construction, inspection, and repair; a honeymoon couple whose different world views quickly become apparent; an easily seduced insurance adjustor, just wanting some piece/peace?; two state troopers romantically involved and all-around good people; a skull-juggling, nice law school dropout; and a crooked-as-they-come mobile home salesman. Yes, the dots are all deftly connected between these wandering souls, and a great tale is told. Wild, whacky, and laugh-out-loud good! ",
   'Not the best (some of the humor was too crass for me) and not the worst. I think he was smoking toad when he wrote this book.',
   "Stormy Weather is another enjoyable Skink episode from Carl Hiaasen. It has all his hallmarks of amusing plotting, enjoyable characters, scumbags getting their come-uppance and some biting commentary on the shady dealing in Florida and celebration of the wonders of the place. This time, the scumbaggery is to do with the exploitation of hurricane victims by corrupt politicians and inspectors who allow unsafe building practices which result in the wholesale destruction of homes, and by various scammers and cowboys who profit from those desperate for shelter after a storm. The plot...well, it's complicated. Suffice it to say that various dodgy characters behave badly, a couple of people behave well and both Jim Tile and Skink are on hand to dispense some measure of appropriate and restorative justice. It is, in short, classic Hiaasen and therefore thoroughly readable and enjoyable. ",
   "I love a good Carl Hiaasen book, alas this was not a good Carl Hiaasen. It starts off strong, sweeping the reader into the story following the wake of a hurricane. The cast ballons quickly and just as quickly gets thinned down in a series of gruesome endings, which, for the most part, are not ironic, fitting, or funny. As the cast dwindles down so does the plot, which revolves around: Bonnie and Max Lamb, the mismatched newly wed couple; Augustine, the good guy skull juggler; Edie, the con-woman looking for the next job; and Snapper, the all around bad guy.  This story is filled with Skink & Jim, which is usually a good thing, for a good example read  Double Whammy . This time Skink is more sad and pathetic, not the usual renegade-recluse-with-the-heart-of-gold. Skink's character is very heavy handed with the 'why things use to be' and 'it would be better if we drive out all the tourists'. A little of this goes a long way, and most of Hiaasen's readers know his feelings about the big mouse. If I had to rank all the Hiaasen books, this would be second from bottom, right above  Strip Tease , which was a bad book and a worst movie.  I give this 3 stars because, as far as summer time, beach books go, you could do a lot worst. ",
   "This is one of my favorite Hiaasen novels. It has 10 or 12 crazy characters (including a one-eyed ex-governor who lives off the wild in the Everglades) and it's hilarious! If you haven't read any Hiaasen, he is based in the Miami area and his books are all humor/crime novels that usually have basically the same theme: a somewhat crazy environmentalist fighting evil, corrupt forces (Florida govt., land developers) in the Everglades. It's really a love-it-or-hate-it genre, but if you love one Hiaasen book, you'll compulsively read the rest of his novels. I've read all 11 books and I also recommend Lucky You, Sick Puppy, and Tourist Season.",
   "Virtually everyone and everything is corrupt, except perhaps the deranged ex-governor of the state, in Carl Hiaasen's marvelously funny Stormy Weather.  Bonnie and Max Lamb are on their honeymoon at Disney World when the one-hundred year hurricane hits. Max, being a good red-blooded American, immediately grabs his video camera and heads for the path of destruction to tape all the gore and devastation. Bonnie is not happy, feeling this is somehow disrespectful, but when Max is kidnapped by Skink, the ex-governor, who had tied himself to a bridge to enjoy the storm, and Max uses the phone calls allowed him by his abductor to phone his firm and check up on his advertising accounts, Bonnie begins to reexamine her new marriage. Especially, after she meets Augustine, the wealthy survivor of a plane crash, who had inherited his uncle's wild animal zoo. The wild animals, released during the fury of the storm, proceed to wreak havoc on some of the low-lives who populate the novel. And there are plenty of them, from the building inspectors who hadn't examined the buildings they had certified as windproof, to the salesman who sold the homes knowing they were unsafe, to the county prosecutor literally caught with his pants down in a compromising position.  Hiaasen makes scornful fun of Florida society. Ultimately, it's the ex-governor who may be the sanest of the bunch. Here's an example of Hiaasen's wit. He's describing seven missionaries from the Church of the High Pentecostal Rumination who immediately proceed to Miami after the hurricane as they make a practice of witnessing to all natural disasters.   Every morning, the missionaries preached, consoled and distributed pamphlets. Then they stood in line for free army lunches at the tent city, and returned to the motel for two hours of quiet contemplation and gin rummy. The Ramada offered free cable TV, which allowed the Ruminators to view a half dozen different religious broadcasts at any time of the day. One afternoon,in the absence of a pure Pentecostal preacher, they settled on Pat Robertson and the 700 Club. The Ruminators didn't share Robertson's paranoid world view, but they admired his life-or-death style of fund-raising and hoped to pick up some pointers.   Another episode concerns a father's despair for his son, a notoriously inept hunter. The father resolves to give up trying to teach h is son the more subtle hunting techniques, particularly after th e son mistakes a bald eagle for some less illegal bird and blows his father's left ear off. The son is captivated by the hurricane, for it has turned loose hundreds of cattle and other farm animals into a land formerly devoid of animals worth hunting. Unfortunately, he mistakes a Cape Buffalo from the wild animal farm for a cow ....  A wild, hysterical romp through society's peccadilloes. ",
   " This was the first Carl Hiaasen book I'd read, and probably the first example of  popular  not-quite-literary fiction I'd read in quite a while. I've been reading too much heavy stuff (Under the Volcano, The Savage Detectives etc.) and was looking forward to a light, fast paced read with some good laughs thrown in, and I'd always heard that Hiaasen was a perfect example of what they call a  beach read.  Also I was intrigued by the idea that his books are always set in Florida, as I spent my childhood years living there and was curious to see if the prose would do a good job of communicating a sense of place (though my memories of the sunshine state are pretty vague at this point)  As you can see by the two stars, I was a little disappointed. The use of setting really seemed only passable for a writer who's reputation is so much defined by writing about a particular place. Hiaasen seems to have a journalist's sense of the small-time politics and social relationships of Florida (trailer parks vs. mansions on the shore/ Miami vs. the interior) but any really tactile kind of description would have gotten in the way of the crime/ thriller plot and so the book didn't really transport me as much as I wanted it to.   The plot revolved around insurance fraud in the wake of a hurricane, and the book in the opening chapters moved at a fast pace, catching you off guard with some funny moments. However, once the elements were all in place for things to begin resolving themselves, I realized that the outcome was fairly predictable, the plot sort of slowed down and there wasn't enough humor to make it seem really worthwhile continuing.   It wasn't all that bad. I may read another Hiaasen sometime this summer and see if he's done any better. But as for Stormy Weather, it was just so-so.   ",
   "I LOL'ed too many times! A great story.",
   "Funny stuff set in the aftermath of a hurricane, yeah, I know, trust me.  Page 203 - Augustine had no chance, not when Bonnie's hair smelled like bougainvilleas.",
   'This was a fun read; it had it had its ups and downs, but the ups beat the downs and made it all worthwhile.',
   " Well, I was told I'd love Hiaasen, so I read Skinny Dip a few years ago, disliked it, tried again with Basket Case a year later and really liked that, so Stormy Weather (which I coincidentally read just as the Stormy Daniels story was breaking) was to be the tie-breaker. Like all Hiaasen, it takes place in Florida - here, specifically in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew - and features a (large) cast of characters who are either small time criminals or big time corrupt businessmen/politicians, the people who get caught up with them (the sympathetically innocent and the unsympathetically weak), or the deeply cynical but decent at heart people who ultimately rescue those innocents. Though much closer in tone and plot to Skinny Dip than Basket Case, once it got going, I actually liked this one the most of the three. It was very funny and the repeatedly evolving multi-layered plot was fast paced, exciting, and very well structured, no small feat considering the amount of people it features, most all of whom, no matter how little page time they may have had, were important and very well drawn. The violence was much less prevalent and sadistic than in Skinny Dip, the people much more likeable, and equally important, the villains were much less one dimensional. While reading it, I envisioned it as the perfect basis for a Quentin Tarantino film. And though a few key characters were from previous novels of his that I'd not read, that posed little problem. Highly recommended for Hiaasen fans and for those looking to start reading him. 92/100",
   "The usual (well, maybe not exactly 'usual' except for the kind of folks who end up in the police blotter sections of newspapers) odd Florida characters from murderers to con artists to the distinctly cracked in the head are involved in various linked ways.  This time it's a Florida hurricane which starts the ball rolling, as various couples find that a hurricane has completely wrecked the lives they had been living before the winds hit and overturned everything that made them the people they felt themselves to be - prostitutes, real estate/insurance/construction scammers, crooked government appraisers, trust fund recipients, elderly retirees, and vacationing honeymooners. But, have no fear, gentle reader, Skink, the insane ex-governor of Florida, will bring justice for the third time (this is number three in the Skink series) to those lucky enough to cross his path.  A Carl Hiaasen book is always entertaining, and like most, this one ends happily as long as you aren't a really bad person. Skink does not save really bad persons. Ever. ",
   "“Stormy Weather” by Carl Hiaasen, published by Alfred A. Knopf. Category - Mystery/Comedy Publication Date - August, 1995. This series is so good that I keep trying to sneak one in every once in awhile as I read current titles. Hurricane Andrew is now a memory but when it hit South Florida its devastation had everyone's attention. This novel, although funny, does hit on the problems brought on by Hurricane Andrew. A pair of newly weds find themselves torn apart as he wants to video, for profit, the devastation. She would prefer the relative safety of the hotel. The pair find themselves smack in the middle of a insurance scam and faced with the crazy characters of Carl Hiaasen, to say nothing of the wild animals let loose by the Hurricane. The novel includes Skink, an ex-governor of Florida who is as eccentric as you can get and his buddy on the Florida Highway Patrol. A very satisfying read that is light and easy and will have you looking for another installment by Carl Hiaasen. ",
   "If the Writer Fairy, dressed in sparkly chinos, tube top, ruby tiara and plaid sneakers, bebopped her way into my bedroom and asked me,  Who d'ya wanna write like?  I think I'd vacillate between Reginald Hill and Carl Hiaasen. But before she bonked me with the ruby magic wand, I'd likely settle on Hiaasen. Why, when he's so often formulaic? Because his formulae make me laugh, that's why. His prose is crisp and funny. His characters are odd, spooky and funny. His plot twists are improbable and funny. I'm grateful for the funny, which is entirely subjective. So you may not like his books. Me, I love this book. I love Skink, though I have no desire to be in his vicinity. I cheer for Skink's sense of justice, his middle finger salute to the destroyers of Nature, his contempt for modern uglifiers of landscapes and his violent reactions to con artists. And I will keep on loving him - at a distance. So any time you're ready WF, swing that ruby wand this way.",
   'For a break from somber literature, I can always count on Hiaasen to deliver a humorous page-turner, a guilty pleasure of wacky characters and their flawed motives. Great entertainment, good-natured satire of human foibles. A timely read, just weeks after Hurricane Irma. He captures perfectly the hucksters, swindlers, looters, and opportunists swooping in to profit from misfortune.',
   "The writer's skill has vastly improved. This is the best book in the Skink series so far. It's a complicated story about how everyone involved is impacted by a hurricane and how they entered, and exited, each other's world.",
   "Probably the lowest ranked of the haaisen books I've read. Wouldn't recommend it to everyone but I still enjoyed it. Just a lot of moving pieces and kind of crude but always a satisfying conclusion ",
   "A little more ponderous and character-laden than most of his novels, but still a rip-roaring read (with a more literary flair than I'm used to seeing from this author!). Hiaasen remains #1 for adult summer reading. I'd get lost in the swamp with Skink any day. ❤️",
   "My first Carl Hiaasen read, and it's a good one. Quite hilarious if you don't stop to analyze too deep why you are laughing. The book is about the aftermath of a devastating Florida hurricane, with about 150000 homes destroyed, loss of life and property. It's actually a major tragedy, but I guess  everything is funny, as long as it happens to somebody else  . The first reference that came to mind while reading   Stormy Weather   is the movie  It's a Mad, Mad, Mad World  . I actually checked on imdb to see if the author wasn't credited for the script, but no: the movie is from 1963. But not much has changed when it comes to human nature in the face of greed. The actual hurricane is dealt with in the text within the first two chapters, and it happens mostly offstage. The focus of the story is on what happens after disaster strikes. You'd think it's the perfect moment to give thanks to the deity of your choice for being alive, roll out your sleeves and give a helping hand to the less fortunate. But for some people this is an opportunity not to be missed and an unsavoury crowd descends on the scene with an eye for a quick profit and a gullible customer:  low-life hustlers, slick-talking scammers and cold-blooded opportunists, not to mention pure gangsters and thugs  The merit of Carl Hiaasen is to balance these distasteful creatures with a few good men and women, giving the book a welcome counterpoint to redeem a shaken faith in humanity. I also suspect the author, beside a great sense of comedic timing, is great believer in Kharma, as in payback is sweet and crime doesn't pay. I actually cheered everytime one of the scoundrels gets his behind kicked. My favorite character by far is Captain Skink - the toad smoking eco warrior who thinks tourists are the ultimate pest in any given location, has a great cooking line in roadkill, quotes from Henry Miller and has renounced civilization to live among the alligators and snakes of the Everglades. I wonder if he appears in other books by the author (edit: I checked and he does). I guess I have to read more from him. From the bad guys I actually liked the golddigger who is on the prowl for one of the Kennedy boys and who never gives up hope for a good, profitable scam. The book is not without problems : it lacks an actual mystery and a coherent storyline. Quite a lot of the book feels like a series of anecdotes loosely stringed together. In order to bring the numerous characters in contact with one another there are a lot of fortuitous coincidences, so many of them it gives the plot a staged / scripted feel. But I'm willing to forgive a lot for the sheer amount of funny mayhem unleashed here.",
   "South Florida is its own uniquely twisted universe. Other than the late Charles Willeford ( Miami Blues ), no one captures this world more accurately, vividly and hilariously in fiction than Carl Hiaasen.  Stormy Weather , written in 1995, is the zanier side of the truly horrific Hurricane Andrew, a vicious satire of the darker side of my adopted Sunshine State, a poke in the eye of the public  servants  and developers who built (or allowed) a world of match-stick and balsa wood homes, and those who sought to profit from it. (The only writer who could get away with this and not be accused, rightfully, of consummate bad taste, is Hiassen.)   Andy  as we all know unceremoniously turned over a large  rock  called called Dade County (now Miami-Dade). From under said  rock  and toward same all manner of predatory, unsavory, corrupt and otherwise colorful creatures, masquerading as human beings, scurried and hurried in the thousands looking to pull the brass ring of easy money from a shocked and traumatized local citizenry.  Hiaasen's ensemble cast in this novel is one of his better and more memorable. Where to begin? A semi-feral, road-kill-eating, swamp-dwelling, poison toad sweat ( raw DMT )-smoking, Henry Miller-quoting ex-governor of the State known as  Captain ; a sexy brunette, down on her luck from an unsuccessful campaign to seduce and blackmail a Kennedy clan member; a crooked-jawed, ex-con  Poster Boy for TMJ  named  Snapper  (you have to laugh); an obnoxious and obsessed advertising exec and his new bride caught up in the  adventure  of the hurricane disaster; a skull juggling ex-law student; two needy and yapping miniature dachshunds named  Donald and Marla,  (the  needy and yapping  part is still going strong, 20 years later); an Asian scorpion named  Mortimer ; and other perfectly-believeable supporting characters of various eccentric and fetching attributes. All come together, including the name-sake dachshunds, by various twists of  coincidence  to turn a botched insurance scam, a bizarre abduction and a tragic natural catastrophe into high adventure and scathing satire at every turn. This is an irreverent, deftly imagined and executed novel, full of good writing, great dialog and sustained movement. If you want to know how to put a novel together seamlessly (as well as enjoy a great read),  Stormy Weather  fills the bill. I couldn't put it down."],
  '_version_': 1748767600135897088},
 {'id': '32838',
  'author': 'Hamka',
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': 'Originally published in a periodical, Pedoman Masjarakat (1939-1940). First edition as book (1941), published by Cerdas Medan.',
  'genre': ['Fiction',
   'Novels',
   'Literature',
   'Romance',
   'Asian Literature',
   'Indonesian Literature'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1468647716l/1307395.jpg',
  'isbn': '9839422421',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1307395.Merantau_Ke_Deli',
  'page_count': '181',
  'rating': 4.33,
  'review_count': 185,
  'title': 'Go to Deli',
  'rating_count': 1064,
  'sensitivity': ['war',
   'religion',
   'abuse',
   'depression',
   'blood',
   'cheating'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['popular',
   'unique',
   'period',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'rich',
   'recommend',
   'delicious',
   'hate',
   'poor',
   'classic',
   'favorite',
   'beloved',
   'important',
   'lacks',
   'detailed',
   'modern',
   'obsessed',
   'regret',
   'legendary',
   'controversial',
   'comfort',
   'interesting',
   'delivered',
   'sad',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'different',
   'heart',
   'promising',
   'spite',
   'emotional',
   'struggling',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'sweet',
   'dark',
   'common',
   'captivating',
   'cynical',
   'tired',
   'beautiful',
   'suffer',
   'original',
   'drama',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': [" Love is the union of two hearts, until destiny says otherwise.  Feeling happy mixed with hate while reading this book. Not all books can make you feel this way, not all books. Feeling happy because this writing feels closer to me, even closer than Van Der Wijck's Shipwreck. Hate because what Hamka wrote turned out to be in the realm of reality - that this life will not be free from bitterness. And it's true, excess is often destructive. Like human love and obedience to custom. Oh yes, this book is very suitable for those who are married or about to get married or those who want to know the bittersweetness of marriage. Actual rating: 4.5/5 stars",
   " They do not realize that only the eyes are free in this world, but the rules of life, rank and rank, race and descent, religion and decency all hinder the freedom of the eyes to play  - Excerpt from the novel Merantau ke Deli, Hamka. Our eyes are free to see, we can see the king's daughter, the rich man's daughter, mira filzah and neelofa. We aspire to them as our life companions. But if we disagree, forget it. The princess married the thief? Only in Disney.  Wandering to the Deli  is not as popular as  The Sinking of the Van Der Wijk , but to me  Wandering to the Deli  is far superior to TKVDW which I feel is just an obsessive story.  Wandering to Deli ..... cannot be described in words. You really have to read it. It's been a long time since I've felt sad when I read a novel.  Merantau ke Deli  managed to make me feel like crying. I couldn't put this book down when I started reading, even though it's a drama genre you still can't wait to know what will happen next, it's like reading a mystery thriller novel. Even though you can't imagine what will happen, you still feel excited. If you want to extend it, you won't get tired of appreciating the beautiful verses of Allahyarham Hamka. It should be read by married people, I think they will understand. Even single people like me  understand .  He will wait for scattered gray hair, falling teeth, sagging cheeks, blurred eyes, and the door of the grave  - \u200b\u200bHamka p/s: to get rid of the depression after  Merantau Ke Deli , you have to read comics.",
   "Merantau Ke Deli still remains in the same family theme as the HAMKA manuscripts that I read before, set in the daily drama of family and relationships but more focused on the issue and effects of polygamy resulting from family intervention due to the gap in lineage. I am interested when the writer still prioritizes social criticism in his writing, a cynical narrative that shows how beautiful and the burden of culture, custom and descent can destroy a bond built on trust and respect. Leman, who promised to take care of Poniem, finally died at the insistence of his family and his own will, and the hereditary rank was pointed out as the mastermind, thus worrying about his own future. Although somewhat upset with Leman's character, it is quite interesting when you think about how pitiful a man is who is the heir of a family that prioritizes culture and lineage. Still open with Leman's choice but still poking with spells;  he is not our man.  Poniem, who has a big heart, is still kind and treats Leman as well as he can even though he has been kicked out and divorced. You can see the difference in the characters of Poniem and Mariatun; between choosing a partner who is mature and self-reliant and who lacks knowledge in the tolerance of family life. Poniem's \u200b\u200bdynamic is the most captivating for me even though in the end I really like Suyono's character. A realist narrative, rich in emotions with a good moral. Loved the ending. 4.2 stars!",
   "My limit is from the look of my nature, Asaku dances wrapped in your turban, The gentleness of the soul welcomes nestapa, The martyrdom of faith is ringing in the chest. When the story is no longer cheerful, Mahligai love blushes and sleeps, The same faith I put in suffering, Strengthen your heart to lean on Him. When I finished reading this novel, I remembered the lyrics of Siti Nurhaliza's song; Batasku Asaku, seems to reveal the life journey of Poniem's \u200b\u200bcharacter. 4 hours without stopping the time it took to finish this novel. To be honest, I'm not a fan of Hamka's writing, let alone novels and writings with romantic elements and love. But there is something different about Merantau ke Deli. Once again like Van Der Wijck's Shipwreck, Hamka tried to raise the issue of culture and ancient customs that became the dogma of Indonesian society. Leman who follows Lembaga customs (Minangkabau people) is bound by his family; need to marry a woman from his tribe even if he already has a beloved wife so that his property does not fall into the hands of another tribe. For Minangkabau people, looking for property is to enrich their own tribe and especially for their wives and daughters. This 'ancient' custom eventually consumes the follower. Through this novel too, Hamka gives a clear message about a household based on love that is based on lust and sweet words alone, will not last long. Often pleasure is the hardest test compared to hardship. And loyalty is always broken by sweet promises.",
   "The story of migrants from various places who came to Deli to improve their standard of living. Brought the story of a couple, one from Padang and one from Java. Starting their household from the bottom, struggling from scratch together. But after succeeding, they returned to their husband's village in Padang. It turns out that many people are unhappy and want to take advantage of their wealth. The origin of the wife's ancestry from Java was disputed. A new wife from Padang was proposed and accepted, thus changing the couple's prosperous life. It was highlighted how the Minangkabau custom seemed to oppress their men. Is it true or is it just because the man is not wise enough to manage his wealth and fails to control himself and his passions.",
   "What an aesthetic and thoughtful piece of literature. For a classic Indonesian book, surprisingly the language style feels modern and easy to be understood. It's the only one among his fictions that is still retaining verbatim et literatim since its first publication more than 8 decades ago. Even Malay language proficient readers could read this without much trouble. The author used a fictional medium to illustrate his thoughts and disagreements about certain practices of Minangkabau ethnic; which he belonged to.  *Minangkabau is the largest matriarchal society in the world, originally from the West Sumatran, Indonesia.  He highlighted customs that he found oppressing to the menfolk prior to 1940s. 1. Man do not own any property. Nor do he inherited any from his family. Only woman do. It passed matrilineally. If the deceased mother had no daughter, properties will be passed to her sisters, nieces or aunts.  2. Man has to build a house and prepared a farm for his wife. It will be build on his wife familial land.  3.That said properties will fully belong to the wife. It will not being considered matrimonial assets. Husband is considered a free lodger of the house for the duration his wife's life. 4. Once properties for the wife had been provided for; he has to provide property to his nieces if he could afford it. The principle is, one cannot enrich the spousal side only. But also your own maternal families as well.  5. Once his wife passed away, the property will belong to his daughter. By custom, he could no longer stays there. His daughter and her spouse will live there. Also, any nieces and their respective spouses.  6. So where will he stays? At the surau. Surau is equivalent to the mosque but in smaller size. That's where their menfolk will stay for the duration of their remaining lives once their wives passed away. All above were delivered though the main character, Leman. He migrated to Deli in search of better living. He earned his living by peddling fabrics on his bicycle, riding through various plantation estates.  * Deli was a prosperous Sultanate state during the period prior to 1940s. It attracted migrants from all Dutch East Indies islands. Its located on the Sumatran Island. * Indonesia was known as Dutch East Indies during the Dutch colonization.  He fell in love with Poniem, one of many mistresses of the estate supervisor. Poniem, being convinced by love and sincerity of Leman, eloped and built their new lives as a legally married couple. So, what will happen when there's a cultural clash?  * Old Minangkabau custom hold that man is 100% responsible to make a living for his marital life. Wife only waited to provided for. Whatever or however it takes, it's not her concerns. Her family has the right to take her back if her marital life deemed uncomfortable materially or unsatisfactory.  Poniem being a Javanese descent believed in shared responsibility in marriage. She pawned all her gold jewelleries to raise capital in order to open a textile shop. It was a success and they became wealthy. Their marital lives was blissfully happy as well. In spite of their childlessness.  One day, Leman decided to visit his hometown in Padang, and brought along his wife.  That's where the seed of conflict began.  All I could say about the ending is, karma had been served to whom that commited injustice. Also to those unappreciative of a bountiful life made possible by sacrifices, devotions and loyalties of others. ",
   "Another great piece by Hamka. I learned a lot about the customs of 'Minangkabau' and 'Jawa', the abuse of polygamy, and entrepreneurship.  About Leman divorcing his first wife Poniem, to be with the young and beautiful Mariatun. Poniem is a Javanese lady who does not have  asal-usul , means she has no family. But, she is innocent and is willing to sacrifice to see her husband excels in his business. After Leman gets rich and all, he marries Mariatun because of Mariatun's villagers saying  Poniem tiada asal usul. Kamu mesti kahwin dengan orang yang ada asal-usul dan lebih baik jika kahwin saja dengan gadis dari kampung kami .  Mariatun's family has another intention to marry her with Leman, which is to get his wealth. It is because in Minangkabau custom, the wealth of the husband will be passed down to the wife. If they get divorced, the house, the money and gold will be entitled for Mariatun. Leman will be left with nothing.  In this piece Hamka highlighted the man's fault who fails to see the good side of his former wife. Biasanya bab perkahwinan, asyik cakap pasal perempuan. Perempuan wajib taat suami lah.. apa lah. Kurang penekanan terhadap kaum lelaki yang menyebabkan sesetengah bilangan daripada kaum ini bebas berbuat apa-apa sahaja.  Bila ditegur sedikit mulalah cakap  Isteri wajib patuh suami . Itu sahaja hujah dia padahal terang lagi bersuluh bahawa dia dayus. Namun, Hamka lebih menitikberatkan kegagalan lelaki (Leman) sebagai seorang suami. Leman kahwin dengan isteri yang lebih muda dan cantik tanpa alasan kukuh. Dikatanya Poniem (isteri pertama) tak mampu beri anak, tapi kenapa tak cakap  mungkin aku yang mandul bukan Poniem . Asyik meletakkan kesalahan pada perempuan sahaja. Poniem in other hand, is chased away by Leman. She married Leman's intelligent and an honest worker whose name is Suyono. Poniem and Suyono works hard and they attain wealth. But Leman with the young beautiful wife Mariatun become poor because the main backbone of his company has gone (Poniem and Suyono). ",
   "While busy handling business, I managed to finish reading this book in one day. Steal time to read a book. Phew! I am more and more interested in reading all of Hamka's works. Inshallah may it be made easier! This Merantau Ke Deli book has its own unique aura. Tells the story of the life of a man named Leman who wanders in search of sustenance until he meets a woman named Poniem. Hamka's storytelling is the best. How can we imagine the character and setting of the place used. Knowing that they are of different degrees of descent and culture, that does not stop Leman from falling in love with Poniem. Although Poniem refused many times because he could predict where their relationship would end, the two finally tied the knot after Leman swore to be faithful to him. Poniem's \u200b\u200battitude is so mature in managing their lives. They make a profit because of the business they run. Leman's wealth has led him to return to the village, his homeland with Poniem. Poniem's \u200b\u200bloyalty to Leman is unwavering. I seriously thought, his life will be happy. However, Leman's pledge of loyalty is becoming increasingly fragile. Until this part, I've started to get overwhelmed. Although Leman earnestly promised Poniem to be loyal, but his loyalty was short-lived. Men and promises. Everything is empty. And when Poniem was 'released', I was sobbing. Huhuhuhu. Why is it so cruel?!! I do praise Poniem's \u200b\u200bcharacter who is patient and content with his fate. Thanks to his patience, he found the happiness he believed himself to be after. And Leman regretted his actions but it was too late. Love is the union of two hearts, until fate says otherwise. This book has many parts that are so deep that it pierces the coat. Satisfied to read. This work makes us more mature in organizing the life path we choose. May two hearts quickly meet to be happy until the end of life! Lol *Recommended to be read guys..",
   "5 stars for this book! Even though it's just a novel, there's a lot of advice and lessons we can take from it. HAMKA's writing is awesome! He was the first scholar I knew who wrote a novel. I believe there are other scientists like him. Like Van Der Wijck's novel Tenggelamnya Kapal, HAMKA criticizes Minangkabau customs that cause many men of the tribe to migrate to earn a living outside their area. This is because men are not a priority for Minangkabau people. It's just me who is HAMKA myself, I'm from Minang. Should be... I recommend this book for people who want to start life as a husband again those who live far from their original place. Read it, my review is not enough to tell how strong this novel is. Whoah!",
   "Among Buya Hamka's books that I have read, it seems that Merantau Ke Deli more clearly and loudly  strikes  Minangkabau customs. Hard, maybe. Buya Hamka seems to be overflowing with anger (and perhaps anger) against the more harmful custom. Bit by bit, I agree. Perhaps, for these reasons my ancestors migrated to Gombak. Want to  run away  from this custom. Yes. I am a Minangkabau child. MKD came down to reveal their  racist  attitude towards each other. Java, Minang. There is a feeling that one's own race is better than other races. Ouch. This is carried far to this day. Real facts. I loved Poniem's \u200b\u200btenacity throughout the reading. A strong woman, and Buya Hamka makes this woman's character colorful. Calm and steadfast, still defeated by the instincts of a wife and woman. And like other Buya Hamka books, I never found a  happily ever after  ending. Maybe this has become his trademark. The best!",
   "I am grateful to be born with mixed Minangkabau and Javanese blood. And thankfully, I was not brought up with the Minangkabau way of thinking - scraping property etc. It's like digging a note on the line of one's own lineage. A book that supports women in loyalty and a spirit that does not give up easily. And the regret of a man who never appreciates the sacrifice and loyalty of a woman. A good read for men, who aspire to polygamy, who only think about pleasure, not about responsibility and commitment.",
   "Here are some important lessons from my reading of this novel: 1. It is not necessary that people who have a dark past will face a gloomy future as well. Similarly, it is not necessary that people who have a brave past will continue to enjoy a bright future. What is important is how our efforts and efforts at this time to ensure our luck in the future is always fertile and guaranteed. 2. The customs of a society are sometimes still appropriate to follow and sometimes harmful to follow. It is up to us to make wise judgments based on common sense judgment and not using lust as an advisor. 3. The world of marriage is not all beautiful and delicious as always told by fantasy stories. There are hills to climb. There is a village that needs to be descended. There is an ocean that needs to be tamed. When all of these can be met by a married couple with full tenacity and perseverance, that is actually the meaning of the true sweetness of marriage, not just subject to the sweetness during the honeymoon or the initial phases of marriage and romance alone. 4. When we often think that hardship is a test in life, we often forget that pleasure is a form of life test as well. Sadly, many people are lost or shipwrecked in surfing the wave of pleasure instead of crossing the tide of hardship. 5. There is no use for us to keep holding grudges against people who have wronged us. No matter how heavy the wrongs that have been inflicted on us, it is the forgiving attitude that will continue to be the yardstick and evidence of a person's high character, nobility of character, and personal purity. Five stars for “Merantau ke Deli”!",
   "On a micro level, it revolves around the story of Poniem, a Javanese girl who married Leman, a man from Padang (Minang people). Poniem pawned all her property to help her husband's business. When it was stable, her husband had to agree to the family's wishes to marry a Padang person as well. It is already the custom. Poniem was content because she was afraid that her husband would be thrown out by the family if he didn't obey. finally Poniem married Mariatun, a girl from Kg Leman herself. At first it was peaceful, then war broke out. finally the divorced Poniem. In macro terms, criticism of the Minang custom that does not accept the presence of outsiders. must marry someone from the same village. just approved by the family. 2. inheritance custom favors women. all the property goes to the wife. while her husband had to sacrifice everything and wander far away. for example rice fields, houses, jewelry etc.",
   "Pity. That's how if you swear a promise to be loyal, you still won't be able to give any guarantee that the loyalty will remain until the end. The story of a wife of Javanese descent married to a Minang man and then mixed with a woman of Minang descent. Buya Hamka's narration is so neat and detailed about the polygamous life underpinned by customs differences that I felt  extremely hurtful  reading about this Minangkabau culture and customs, denying the right to love to people of different descent. But the ending of the story does not disappoint.  What you give, you'll get back! ",
   "Buya HAMKA's work made me excited to read it until the last page. Social criticism of Minangkabau culture. Poniem's \u200b\u200bcharacter is exciting. But GOD's destiny is so beautifully arranged. Some of the favorite verses are read over and over again.  Although they are suffering, but their eyes are alive. There is no palpitation and shaking of the heart, but walking straight to the goal   People don't plan their own lives but live the plans that have been made in the past   Go ahead, cross the vast sea of \u200b\u200bBahrullah, be brave to face the rolling waves. Because by playing with the waves and getting used to going through the turbulence, seasickness will disappear. At every encounter with a hardship and an obstacle in the the ark of the household, that is a test; when it reaches the other side, there is a firm pillar and a strong joint, to build the house of love. Where is luck if not in the heart? ",
   "This book narrates the life journey of married couple Leman and Poniem who are of different races and customs. Because he followed his race and the village people's customs too much, Leman decided to have two wives, Mariatun, his villager who ended up eating himself. To be honest, I am really angry with Si Leman who is like a fool just following the words of his village people. Their customs are also unfair and demeaning to other nations. Here Buya gives a lesson that women's status is high regardless of custom, and we should think long and hard not to be too obsessed with old custom. The order of Buya's words is amazing, so that I can empathize with Poniem's \u200b\u200bfeelings and even cry reading it. I like the apologetic scene at the end of the story, if you follow the plot in your own head, Leman should have continued to suffer and not need to be forgiven. Apapon is a book full of lessons about women, married life, and religious customs. 5/5⭐",
   "Borrow a friend's book. This book focuses on the customs of suitors who value the status of suitors, especially in marriage. I hate Leman the most in this book because he is a man who does not want to appreciate the sacrifice of his first wife but it is not his fault one hundred percent. The surrounding relatives insisted on her marrying her 'people'. Disappointed with Leman, even though it's not one hundred percent his fault, but there is sense, at least think back on your wife's sacrifice. My emotions are right!",
   "When reading this book, I put myself as Poniem, that is a young girl whose life only depends on being bribed by people when she is on the farm. Living in the comfort of being the wife of the landlord, without even being married. For him, what is the meaning of getting married, if everything is easy, enough food can be obtained without getting married. Until a young man named Leman came, wanted to marry her and change the fate of both of them in a state called Deli. Ehhh why is it a synopsis? It's not a review if it's like this, right? The review; This novel is the best because Hamka's biggest criticism is aimed at the Minang custom itself. Dan Merantau Ke Deli is actually Hamka's writing which is quite controversial because it received a lot of counter-criticism from Minang figures. But it's just that, because HAMKA is also from Minang. Alas, just like I cursed PAS near Kelantan. Why is it that PAS wants to take the story, tup tup, I will get married, have children and enjoy what is in that state. Past wind~",
   "Recently, I have been very happy with stories about ancient Indonesian life, especially inter-ethnic marriages. The motto  Bhinneka Tunggal Ika  is applied to those who have experienced it themselves, considering that in modern times there are still many who require their children to marry people of the same ethnic group. In fact, according to the current view, such a principle is very old school, isn't it? This novel has a teaching so that we stick to our stance, not wishy-washy like Leman, where people say this is followed, people who say it are followed. have no principles . Be a woman like Poniem who even though she feels anxious about her life if she is not accompanied, finally manages to prove that she is actually 'very empowered' as a woman. She is indeed a husband, but she is the one who 'helps' her husband. Even with her second husband, she doesn't want to sit idly by, she continues to work hard together for the sake of old age. One more thing, not to be racist (this is Leman and the gang  little by little bring the name Java Java Java). Well, let alone in the past, nowadays there are still a lot of racist people, really. But, the language is a bit difficult to understand, really, because the first issue was from ancient times, the language is somewhat Malay again. Plus I think there's something wrong. In a chapter where Suyono invites Poniem to marry after being widowed from Leman, he claims to have been married seven times, however, all failed. It says he is much younger than Poniem, woowww good time  this one mamas *applause*.",
   "There is no doubt that Buya Hamka was never afraid to criticize the flaws he saw in the traditional practices of his community. His work, Merantau ke Deli (MKD) is loaded with social criticism of Minang culture which in Hamka's view is very materialistic and oppressive to men. It was the custom of the Minang people at that time, if they wandered, they should not forget to bring their wealth back to their own land to add to their respective tribe's wealth. In his home country, he also needs to build a house for his daughter and buy a plot of rice paddy for his wife, so that the relationship between husband and wife becomes firm and strong. This novel also captures the atmosphere of the era when the Deli area was developing as a result of the opening of tobacco plantations by the Dutch. Many citizens from outside the island of Sumatra got caught up in the promise of easy jobs and ended up getting caught up in the poenale sanctie system, eventually finding themselves forced to work hard and for little pay. Unfortunately Hamka through this novel does not explain this system in detail. This work was first published in the magazine Pedoman Masjarakat (1939-1940) and published in 1941 by the publisher Cerdas Medan. http://ulasbuku.blogspot.com/2013/11/...",
   "[2020-33] #MerantauKeDeli #HAMKA #StayAtHome After Van Der Wijck's Shipwreck, this is the second novel from the author HAMKA that I read. Really, the story is simple. About love that is denied, about customs that must be followed. However, the movement of the story created by HAMKA makes this novel leave a deep impression on the reader. Through reading this novel, to a certain extent can gain new knowledge related to Padang and Javanese cultural customs. For fans of legendary novels, this Merantau Ke Deli novel is one of the copies you should have!",
   "A very 'depressing' streak is saved by a beautiful ending. I eagerly await Poniem's \u200b\u200bfate (sometimes, my own tears also fall). Lack of exposure to Minangkabau culture, the impression I got from Hamka is that the culture of this group 'destroys' marriage a lot. I do not know. It's strangely forbidden. Perhaps, what is described in the book is no longer practiced in today's modern world.",
   'Our actions today may not leave a mark today, but it may haunt us in the future. Are we sure, what we do, what we say, will be a blessing, or a disaster? Today we can manage our words, manage our steps, but tomorrow, when the retribution comes, we are old, we have lost our strength, so the only thing that arises is regret... Is there still a chance to correct all the cheating???',
   "best. Cultural and religious criticism of the Minang and Javanese people. even though it's old but still fresh.",
   "Peace be upon you. A work by Hamka that never disappoints. Another work written by Hamka after the sinking of the van der wick ship. This life revolves around love, women, customs and happiness. Nothing more than that for a man named Leman. . Out of love and pity, he married Poniem who was not from his relatives, the Javanese. Because of a woman named Mariatun, Leman's life journey is at times up and down. Because of the glorified custom, the family life that Leman and Poniem once created is also destroyed. Because of the happiness that is being sought, a household that has been built with Poniem for more than 5 years is broken What else Hamka is trying to convey is to hold fast to the customs of the Padang people. Everything is a priority for women, houses, a piece of rice paddy and men are likened to  dust-carrying elephants , wandering for a better life, abandoned and despised by the original family and return only to enrich his relatives. Is that the custom of Minangkabau? Is being a man a burden for Minangkabau if their migration is not successful and as rich as their return? Is justice based on the yardstick of the success of a migrant? Why is it so contemptible to marry those who do not born and come from Minangkabau? Why are women also victims and champions? Much more. There is much more that I do not understand from the issue of Minangkabau customs. The story of the sinking of van der wick's ship is the same. Is this custom still practiced by their people? His writings really teach the reader to recognize the meaning of life that is not within the reader's circle. Really! Traveling life is not as easy as it seems, as pleasant as we see. However, traveling teaches us the meaning of life in a different world and matures our thinking. Give me a chance to roam further!👜",
   "Yesterday I finished reading Terusir. Today Merantau to Deli. Back to back, it is more clear to me that Pak Hamka is a writer whose one wish is to raise the dignity of women. Let the woman be as lowly in the eyes of society as Mariah Bibi the prostitute, as lowly as Poniem the garden porter the mistress of the foreman, they are still great women as long as they have a good conscience, strong spirit, loyalty to the man who has sworn to lead the hand them throughout life. If the woman is noble or from a good family, but likes to slander, is arrogant, doesn't know the meaning of thanks, like Mariatun, even if you want to get angry, it's not worth it. It's the personality of the people, their upbringing is like that. Wandering to Deli, if the reader has never known about customs, will surely open many eyes about Minangkabau women's greed for wealth. Are you really like that? Their loyalty to property, even if they want to get married, they are taught by their mother and sister to make sure that there is a house and a rice field in the village, no matter what happens to the husband, compared to the Javanese who are symbolized through this novel as having a refined character even if their lives are poor, hardworking, patient and willing to go into debt to help the husband. Personal experience, I know a mamat who is originally from Bukit Tinggi Padang but he was born in Malaysia, personally he is not difficult to understand.... selfish, in business he is willing to cut the path of good people, good friends, as long as he gets it, he himself once told me a parable of Minang people,  many Minang men in a hole, each one of them will step on the other's head to climb up, no matter what . Once very close to me....that's the word la, once. Anyway, Merantau ke Deli is also a must read by Hamka.",
   " Once this scarf has stuck to my head, I should carry it to the grave, don't take it off again.  Merantau ke Deli, written by HAMKA, tells the story of a young man from Minangkabau named Leman who trades in Deli and his journey in the realm of marriage full of ups and downs. Leman married a Javanese woman who was a contract porter in Deli by promising to take care, treat and educate her well. But when the ark of their marriage has sailed, there are too many tangles of life that they go through. The promise that Leman sprinkled ate him alive. I really like the narration style of this book, the language is beautiful and classic. To be honest, at the beginning of Chapter 1, it was quite difficult for me to understand this story. But after I continued reading, it wasn't as difficult as it was at first. If there are readers who feel heavy with the narration of this book in Chapter 1, I recommend that you skip to page 6. I found that HAMKA tries to first strengthen the reader's perception of Deli so that it does not change for the chapters next. The story line of this book is so emotional that I even felt tears especially when I reached the climax part of this story. I was able to finish this book in less than a day, showing that the story is very interesting and easy to understand. Overall, if the reader is looking for a sad short fiction novel to shed tears, this is the book. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️",
   "I will give this book as a gift to those who aspire to marry again or to my husband in the future. Hamka once again succeeded in playing with the emotions of a Nurul Najwa. If Under the Protection of the Ka'bah I like Hamid's character but not for Merantau Ke Deli with Leman's character. How weak a man is when he is hidden by lust, incited by the words of people who are considered family until his stance and promises to his wife continue to be forgotten. Once again Hamka highlighted the issue of Minangkabau customs which ended up harming the boys because they wanted to protect the tribe's name. Poniem, I like the tenacity of a Javanese child who was originally a porter, but with a noble heart and good manners. If all wives are like Poniem, there will be peace in the household. Anything is willing to do. Suyono's mature character cools my heart. Emotions mixed with Suyono's goodness. His heart is transparent. My emotions are like a roller coaster, if the marriage is obscured by lust, it will be destroyed, on the other hand, if both partners have ambitions, they will be happy."],
  '_version_': 1748767600437886976},
 {'id': '33276',
  'author': ['Pico Iyer', 'Robin Desser'],
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': 'Mohawk hair-cuts in Bali, yuppies in Hong Kong and Rambo rip-offs in the movie houses of Bombay are just a few of the jarring images that Iyer brings back from the Far East.',
  'genre': ['Travel',
   'Nonfiction',
   'Cultural',
   'Asia',
   'Writing',
   'Essays',
   'India',
   'Autobiography',
   'Memoir',
   'Travelogue',
   'Japan',
   'Biography',
   'Anthropology'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1320403832l/131107.jpg',
  'isbn': '679722165',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/131107.Video_Night_in_Kathmandu_and_Other_Reports_from_the_Not_So_Far_East',
  'page_count': '400',
  'rating': 3.87,
  'review_count': 111,
  'title': 'Video Night in Kathmandu and Other Reports from the Not-So-Far East',
  'rating_count': 2862,
  'sensitivity': ['bones', 'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['popular',
   'ordinary',
   'repulsive',
   'struggle',
   'period',
   'top',
   'new',
   'famous',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'magic',
   'hilarious',
   'relate',
   'classic',
   'enjoyable',
   'favorite',
   'funny',
   'worth',
   'evocative',
   'obsessed',
   'wonderful',
   'mid',
   'modern',
   'regret',
   'shocked',
   'average',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'delivered',
   'sad',
   'best',
   'acclaimed',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'different',
   'heart',
   'touching',
   'struggling',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'repetitive',
   'bothers',
   'disturbing',
   'love',
   'delighted',
   'perfect',
   'common',
   'captivating',
   'cynical',
   'painful',
   'dated',
   'familiar',
   'witty',
   'cliches',
   'drag',
   'useless',
   'disappointing',
   'beautiful',
   'propaganda',
   'captured',
   'inspiring',
   'annoying',
   'office',
   'attention',
   'absorbing',
   'capture',
   'entertaining',
   'virgin',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'dull',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy'],
  'review': ["Acclaimed travel writer, Pico Iyer, wrote about his travels in Asia during the mid-1980s. His essays explore the disconnect between the local traditional ways of life and imported American culture. His destinations included Nepal, Bali, China, Hong Kong, Tibet. Thailand, Japan, the Philippines, and India. Conversations with Asians led to a deeper understanding on both sides, or to some humourous misunderstandings with hilarious results. He wrote a witty book with compassion and fairness. Iyer exhibited an openness to understand the various cultures and the thoughts of the inhabitants from all walks of life. He discusses how Western culture, fashion, American fast food outlets and upscale hotel chains, pop music and films were beginning to exist alongside Asian customs and traditional ways of life. In 2000, the author added an afterward chapter because much had changed politically and economically, and the internet was accelerating the changes.  I actually bought a paperback version in a bookstore in Kathamandu in the latter part of the 1990s, and even at that time, it was becoming outdated. Unfortunately, I was unable to finish this informative and entertaining book. It was among several hundred books lost when my house was flooded. I was delighted to recently find a Kindle version on Amazon. Now the book resides in the 'cloud', safe from floods.   Reading the book in 2022, the world is very different than the one he described. Further escalation of the co-existing of Western and Eastern ideas and norms are expected, but what will the world be like when travel is once again resumed? Will the economies of some countries collapse, and will they become more reluctant to host overseas tourists? I would love to see an update of this book in the not-too-distant future. This would have been a 5-star book but some of it is no longer relevant but still fun and interesting to read.",
   "I think this is Pico Iyer's first book.It is not as polished as the later ones.It is a journey through several Asian countries in the 1980s.It didn't quite meet my expectations,after having already read The Lady and the Monk. The destinations include : Bali,Tibet,Nepal,China,Japan,Thailand,Hong Kong and India.Some of the chapters get a bit lop-sided.In India,he writes mostly about Bollywood and in Japan,mostly about baseball,without touching upon much else. He embarks on his trip to Mao's China without a working knowledge of the language and without a guide.In those days,that was quite an undertaking. In several of his stop overs,he does appear a bit dismayed that instead of discovering the exotic,he is confronted by the invasion of American pop culture everywhere.Not his best book,but still worth reading.",
   "Iyer in his introduction tells us this is “less like a conventional travel diary than a series of essays” of a “casual traveler's casual observations” of the Asia he saw “over the course of two years... [spending] a total of seven months crisscrossing the continent.” Each chapter covers his thoughts about one country: Bail (Indonesia), Tibet, Nepal, China, Philippines, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Japan. Most of the essays have an overarching theme through which he looked at the country. Bali as paradise lost, Nepal as Hippie Magic Bus Tour, India's Bollywood, Thailand its skin trade, Japan and its passion for baseball. He admitted he had never formally studied Asian affairs and didn't know any of the languages of the countries he visited, but he is well-traveled and well-informed. At the time of his travels he was a writer on world affairs for  Time  magazine and had written for the  Times Literary Supplement ,  Partisan Review  and the  Village Voice .  The book struck me as rather dated at times, or at least amusingly of its time, the essays mostly being about travels around 1985. A generation has passed since Iyer traveled through these countries. Iyer at first seemed obsessed with this idea of cultural imperialism, hitting that theme continually and calling tourists “lay colonialists” despite showing that those aspects of Western pop culture and ideas are things that Asians adopt--and adapt--for themselves. Just as Westerners often do the same (only to be labeled “cultural vultures” by Iyer.) He seemed oblivious to the ironies of a British-born man of Indian extraction, Oxford and Harvard educated, who called America home ranting about how cultural exchange “corrupts” the “purity” of Asian cultures--while himself as a visitor doing his part to carry the contagion. His very name is a combination of the Buddha's name and that of an Italian philosopher. He called Japan his “ideal” and he currently lives there with his Japanese wife. So he's a man who himself mixes cultures, yet seemed often to decry that, or at least be deeply ambivalent. He also sometimes struck me as naive and condescending. I recently read Gilbert's  Eat, Pray, Love  and though I had my issues and poked some fun at it in my review, I thought Gilbert had a more balanced view of Bali, which Iyer presented as this paradise without crime and a culture of harmony. Gilbert rather than a few weeks spent months there, and she didn't spend time as a tourist in the usual expat haunts, but actually interacted with ordinary Balinese. The people weren't museum artifacts to her that need to be preserved under glass. Yet despite my criticism I don't regret my time spent reading Iyer. He caught Asia at an interesting time. For instance traveling through China right post-Mao, experiencing the maddening house-of-mirrors communist bureaucracy and the vibrancy of the emerging market economy, Hong Kong while still a Crown colony and the Philippines as “People Power” was ushering the Marcos regime out. He's erudite, often lyrical, witty and at times funny, and, on occasion heart-breaking. His essay on the Philippines and its crushing poverty comes to mind: sad and surreal. His multinational perspective does make him often insightful about the cross-cultural currents he witnessed. And over the course of his book, and in his epilogue and 2000 afterword, he did seem more nuanced and less judgmental about the exchanges between East and West.",
   "The book is about his 6-month visit to the different countries in the Far East in 1985. Each country has its own chapter in the book but the sequence is not chronological. I think it was arranged according to how Iyer would like to impact or influence the mind of the reader and I think he was able to do that effectively. The first chapter is about the paradise island of Bali focusing on the effect of the tourism to the previously gentle and virgin island. The character of Wayan, the child-father who was deserted by his wife put the human perspective in what has happened to this Australian haven. From Bali, the other chapters are Tibet, Nepal, China, The Philippines, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Thailand and Japan. I was able to relate to this book because since 1999 up to couple of years back I traveled extensively to most of these Asian countries. I was late by more than a decade since the Iyer wrote his book but I still saw most of what he wrote about - the expats in Hong Kong, the night life in Patpong, the tourist bus in China, the slums in Mumbai and the salary men of Tokyo. About those countries which I was not able to visit like Tibet, Nepal and Burma, I learned a lot from reading those chapters. For one the book is aptly titled. The book is comparable to the video houses in Kathmandu showing different movies or programs that are mainly about US stuff - Rambo, American football, etc. In other words, the book is about how the West (the US in particular) has influenced these countries from their economy, politics, sports, morality, etc. However, Iyer seemed to be very fond of giving two sides for every theory he raised in the book. For example, having said the above, he followed it up with the question: who is really influencing who? Is it really the West influencing the East or vice versa? In his Afterword, he offered his answer: both. In fact, except for The Philippines, the East is imbibing everything West offers but in the end each country emerges still intact albeit changed. This means that Thailand listens to American Top 40 music but in the end it is still Thailand and not America. Obviously, my favorite is the chapter about Iyer's experience in the Philippines. 1985 was my first working year after college. The songs that were ruling out the airways like Bruce Springsteen's Born in the US (the title of the chapter) and USA For Africa's We Are The World were truly the hits of that year. I was also one of those who watched Isla (starring Maria Isabel Lopez) in Mrs. Marcos' Film Center. Iyer mentioned that the government showed porn in a film center with the screening price 5 times higher than the regular movie. True. He also mentioned about Baguio where I finished by first university degree. He said that  for all its silvered, foggy charm, though, Baguio did not seem to have the imperiousness of a British hill station, or its weighted dignity  and went on concluding about the Philippines being the model of American democracy in Asia but without any sign of  Lincoln, Thoreau or Sojouner Truth, just Dick Clark, Ronald McDonald and Madonna  Once again, true. Iyer wrote the truth, however painful. He also wrote beautifully - his narrative is peppered with words whose meanings either I have long forgotten or don't know. His vocabulary is definitely deeper than Nicholas Sparks. No wonder, Pico Iyer is a TIME writer. There are also many memorable quotes that I faithfully highlighted (which is not a regular habit for me) while reading. Let me share this one from pp 21: Everyone is familiar with the slogan of Kipling's  Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet.  But few recall that the lines that conclude the refrain, just a few syllables later, exclaim,  But there is neither East nor West, border, nor breed, nor birth, / When two strong men stand face to face, though they come from the ends of the earth!  Nicely put, Mr. Iyer!",
   "Disappointing. Pico rails about how badly the West has polluted the rest of the world, lamenting the ruined purity of far-flung places. Michael Jackson cd's for sale in Indonesian villages? I'm shocked, shocked! For anyone who has been around the world a bit, this book is just too obvious, and for anyone who hasn't, it's a cynical and jaded expose of...nothing too interesting. What a clever fellow! He finds what he expects to find; this book is about as interesting as a restaurant review of Chili's or TGI Fridays. Not fun. And the writing is repetitive. He only had 50 pages of real ideas.",
   "The book is a travelogue of East Asia set in late 1980s. Of the dozen or so pieces, the one on Japan was superb, so were the introduction and conclusion. But the rest made me wish I hadnt picked up this book. And now I see that d 3 most popular reviews on goodreads app are 2 or 3 stars. The author's aim is to analyse cultural impact of d West on d East and he does so with a lot of self-indulgence, whining and cliches. The usual Indian Bollywood piece that u may now have memorised, the almost ceaseless complaints of the author in each piece -  Bhai aapne dekha kya wo to bata ! Aur kuchh to achcha hoga ?  The lack of conversations or direct speech further increase the disconnect between the reader and the author and the author and the place.",
   'For such an acclaimed writer, this was just ok. First of all i wonder if he actually hung out with any Nepalis - they do not call their hats  fezzes  they are Dhaka topis. Details are so distracting, it is worth getting them right. ',
   "Once in a while I like to read a good travel book, preferably about Asia. Sometimes I also catch myself finishing these books with some sort of dissatisfaction. It's difficult for me to put a finger on it - is it because usually these travel accounts are written by the Westerners? Is it because of them illustrating a time in the past, almost a history, and not the flavor of  right now ? Or is it because the personality of the author barges in way too much at times? While, a few years ago, I was rather mesmerized by the ever present personality of Paul Theroux in his  The Great Railway Bazaar  and rather admired the relative freshness of Tiziano Terzani's outlook in his  The Fortune-Teller Told Me  (both about Asia), I must admit that I am rather lukewarm about Pico Iyer's accounts. It could be partially because of the spin that the author wanted to give the book, namely, tracing down the westernization of Southeast Asia. There probably wouldn't be anything wrong with that if  Video Night  was written in the 00's. But it was largely written in mid-80's. By now most of these countries must have surely changed their absorbing or rejecting treatment of Western elements and it felt a lot like reading a book on fairly close history but nevertheless rather useless history. It is particularly visible in the chapter on China in which there is no talk of factories or air-pollution as in the middle of the 80's the PRC had just barely started to open itself to the outside world. Interesting, but only from a certain historic point of view. Another problem was the style in which the book is written. Fairly wordy and erudite, it was the sometimes evocative, sometimes a bit annoying  style of plenty . Iyer's description sparkle with wit, puns, literary references. Sometimes it is a pleasure, occasionally a pain - especially when the reader feels like they are being sold more of the author's wit rather than a bit of Asia. Having said that, there were still some chapters that I thoroughly enjoyed. My favorite one was probably on the isolated Burma, author's mostly nostalgic, a little bit confused, description of it. The musings on India's bollywood movies were also educational and sometimes funny. The entire India chapter rang the most honest and straightforward to me. On the other hand, both Hong Kong and Thailand parts were somewhat horrible. It seems to me that Iyer was way too focused on only one, single thing - corporate life of the expats in the former and prostitution in the latter. Consequently the reader hardly gets any depiction of a Hong Kong female or of a Thai male. I would still recommend  Video Night in Kathmandu  to anyone readily interested in Southeast Asia. The readers, however, must bear in mind the possible outdatedness of certain passages or perhaps even entire chapters.",
   'Well written, witty and fascinating account of travelling in Asia in the 80s. It is very interesting to read in 2016 about how these countries were 30 years ago.  Pico states outright that his is a single sided account purely from the little he sees as a tourist.The book has an overarching theme of how the West influences the East,Pico sticks to it and makes no bones of it either. It is a good thing that he gives the clarification at the start itself. If he had not, this book would have come across as extremely condescending. It still does in few places.',
   "This book was patronizing bordering on the repulsive. This is a perfect example of how being aware of colonialism does not magically prevent you from participating in it. Pico Iyer tries so hard to be arch and snide towards careless, self-absorbed Western tourists only to end up acting just like them, every time, everywhere he goes. He never bothers to encounter anybody except tourists and taxi drivers. His  analysis  ends up reinforcing pre-existing stereotypes everywhere he goes. His fascination with young Asian girls is creepy in the extreme. (Yo, those girls in Bali are ten!) He gets to Nepal and encounters a whole community of washed-out hippies who are literally there because the Grateful Dead told them to go, treating Nepal like a glorious hookah lounge, roused out of their drug induced sloth only long enough to haggle over a $5/night room with somebody who makes $200 a year,  and he thinks it's glorious!  What the hell is wrong with this guy? He's a beautiful writer, but what a jerk. ",
   "Set in the mid 80's, Pico's travel writing worked on two levels for me - one, in terms of his destinations, and the other, in terms of time. Right from the first page, with his interpretation of the Rambo phenomenon in Asia, his sharp wit makes this book a great read. He uses individual characters in different places (India, China, Tibet, Nepal, Burma, Thailand, HongKong, Japan, Philippines) to describe the place's character. In some cases, the stereotypes are reinforced, but in a lot of others, he manages to fit in and yet observe objectively. He discusses the influence of the West on the East and tries to show each of the places he has visited have reacted to it - some by shunning it, some by completely absorbing it, and some by adapting it and making it their own. I felt that throughout the book he stayed true to his observations, though the perspective was tinged with a favouritism for the east.",
   "I read parts of this book every once in a while, not so much because I love it, but because every single time it gives me something new to think about. Iyer's chronicling of the east in the 80s will remain a classic for this very reason: It is literature as time-travel. He is remarkably prescient about so much that's to come, and yet little of the writing is dated, if at all. There is so much to unpack and think about here, in just how the world has changed from then to now, where I write from the pandemic-closed world we find ourselves in. I have a few essays left in it still, and I will get to them when I get to travel again. But even if I do not, I'll still reach for it, even if just to remember what it was like, you know, once upon a time.",
   'This was written in 1988, and I was afraid it would be outdated & uninteresting. But I certainly remember how the 80s played out here in the states and it was fascinating to read what was going on halfway around the globe... Ah, the 80s...no matter where you were, who could forget? ',
   'Essays on travel in Asia in the 1980s. His first book? Some entertaining stuff, dimly remembered now.',
   "Pico Iyer is a talented writer and a thoughtful cultural analyst. The book is now dated, having been written in the mid-eighties, but that isn't one of my motivations for its rating. I found the glimpses of things that have definitively changed to be interesting, and often they made me wish I had some sort of comparative current nonfiction text about the region, to compare, but this is really a problem of my lack of comprehensive reading, not the book's. My three-star rating comes from two developmental problems that I couldn't get over in the text, which are often related. The first is that the text suffers from too many ideas. When I picked up the book and saw that it was called  Video Night in Kathmandu , then read the first chapter about Rambo, I thought that the book would be a comparative exploration of culture through the lens of imported Western media. And it was... and it wasn't. The chapter on India was an especially bad offender. Heavy on analysis, light on examples, it felt difficult to discern if I was reading a travelogue trying to be a film studies tome or something else. Iyer went a lot of places and saw a lot of fascinating things, but he didn't always put those things down in a way that was cohesive. This brings me to my second developmental objection: I never quite became convinced that the order of the chapters, and the order the cities were introduced within each chapter, made sense. Sometimes we would jump abruptly in space and time from Tokyo to its anagram friend Kyoto without any warning. At the beginning of the book, I would get a glimpse at Burma that once references Bangkok, confirming that Iyer had already been there, yet the book wouldn't actually  discuss  Bangkok until nearly the end. I'm okay with a lack of chronological cohesion if there is a larger reason, but in this case I was unable to find it. I am glad I read this book, but I wouldn't read it again, nor another book by Iyer. Bring me one of his travel pieces for a magazine, though, and I'd happily eat it right up.",
   "Were the 1980s another world? I didn't realise on starting this book that it was written in the 1980s. Surely, I thought, when I realised, Asia would have changed so much in 30 years that this book would perhaps seem a little out of date? Well, no. Not really. The pop song and pricing references may be dated, but many of the things the book talks about in looking at Asia from the eyes of an outsider are still valid.  Pico Iyer did not attempt to make a sociological or economic study of the Asian countries he visited; instead he tried to capture the personality of a place through the persons that he meets on his travels, both locals and foreigners. The chapter on Hong Kong captures the closing days of British ownership, describing an expat lifestyle which may not be less common under Chinese rule. Has the level of poverty and desperation captured in the chapters on Thailand and the Philippines decreased? China and Japan - both still absorb ideas from the West but somehow make them Chinese or Japanese in the process. So even though this book is some years old now, and considering that in between times we have seen the collapse of communism, and the opening up of countries which were closed to tourist during the time this book was written, many of the issues described in the countries are still relevant.  The book is a good read. It gives you an armchair trip through 10 countries (Tibet, Bali, Nepal, Burma and India in addition to the ones named above) and a little trip through time as well. In several place Iyer tries to put the things he sees and experiences into the context of the person on the other side. These insights may give you some perspective next time you're in another country and you're being hassled to buy something, take this taxi, shop here... a reality check that what is annoying to you is survival for many, and where you spend your precious tourist dollars could make the difference between a family having something to eat that night... or not. ",
   "better to be fascinating wrong than boringly nigh-correct, one supposes, and in this regard, Pico Iyer's most famous work 'Video Night in Katmandu' deserves its sort of backpacker fame, it's name dropping in Bali and Lhasa. several years before its time (first published 1988, the Soviet Union still existent), Iyer's relentless accounts of dynamic and hustler Asia, decadent and work-averse West predicts a state of affairs that comes to pass thirty years later... but the average Chinaman, of course, is still a Guangzhou hustler of middle-school education and the average Westerner still a junior-college office worker with four weeks' vacation a year.  to some degree I'm gifting the 5 here for '3'ing the  The Lady and the Monk  and  Falling off the Map , but if Video Night doesn't absolutely hold firm in the 5-space, certainly it argues for it in more ways than one. Iyer's perfumed and noctural Bali, for example, might carry it it through if for nothing else and if he shied away in Falling from an authentic engagement with the $3/day crowd of Nam and Ulaan Baator, here in Video Night Iyer is two-feet in. he makes no apologies for ceaseless nights in the Soi Cowboy of Bangkok, he isn't afraid to inquire where exactly the pesos are flowing in shanty-town Manila. if you're going to read only one Pico Iyer, this is the one to do it. and if Iyer never again lives up to his 1988 work, well that is cruelty reality, too, the unforgiving face of fate which says all of us, even the Oxonians, only have one book inside of us. tant pis",
   "Iyer travels to various Asian countries over a multi-year period in the 80s. His thesis is how American pop-culture is being exported and adopted throughout Asia. Rambo, Madonna and Bruce Springsteen are mentioned throughout the book. Iyer covers a number of countries and regions including Bali, India, the Philippines, Japan, Nepal, Thailand, and Hong Kong. Western tourism in Bali. Movie stars in India. Karaoke and escorts in the Phillipines. Baseball in Japan. Prostitution in Thailand. Iyer depicts Asian culture being overrun by Western commercialism. The narrative is funny, sad, and disturbing. Perhaps Iyer set out to vilify the negative influences of capitalism from the outset. He mostly interacts and gravitates towards the less fortunate from these countries. He is also often found in the seemlier parts of town. Most of the people he meets are shown struggling to find meaning and make a living in the new global economy.  If Iyer's goal is to point out the negative impacts of Capitalism and American influence, he achieves this well. This is a well crafted book.  Video Night  forces you to consider the problems that globalization and materialism create. The book is darker than perhaps a more balanced viewpoint would call for, but that seems to be by design.  Captivating, well-researched, and thought provoking. Those interested in Asian cultures, concerned with the soullessness of materialism, or the struggle of the less fortunate will find  Video Nights  an interesting read.",
   "The book is gives readers an intriguing look at the Western world's impact on Eastern culture, and how the tourism industry has affected the lives Asian citizens so heavily bombarded by propaganda, politics, and US standards. It's as if we've polluted the West, in some ways. The actual author seems to be a bit stuck up; I recall he called short Asian women dwarfs or something of the like. He is quite different in the final chapter of the book, stating that he had experienced so much beauty in his travels, and sharing how long the relationships he made with locals lasted and that the East has just as significant an impact on the US as we have on the East. But he doesn't seem to carry the enthusiasm throughout the other portions of the book, and always seems dull. I understand that he wants to be 'real' about tourism, and expose the realities of it, but you've got to also share the positives with the negatives. From his accounts, I've seen the poverty and the riches, which I quite like. His chapter on India is almost solely about India's movie industry, although it's interesting. What else did I gather? Well, the Japanese are perfectionists, Hong Kong is the New York of Asia, Bali is pretty much all tourists, Burma is one of the few places left to its natural beauty, its hard to find a true getaway paradise, and Filipinos are some of the most overworked and underpaid in the world. And as someone who has hired a Filipino, I can certainly confirm the last point.",
   "I first heard of Pico Iyer by reading his liner notes in THE ESSENTIAL LEONARD COHEN compilation. Then I heard him interviewed about his interactions with the Dalai Lama on the NPR program Fresh Air. Clearly, he is a devout seeker with an admirable curiousity.  This book describes the exoticism that goes both directions in the cultural  East  and  West . It opens with Iyer's observations of how different Asian countries were impressed by the movie RAMBO and the numerous ways Westerner tourists are fed all sorts of cultural derangements. Although, his generalizations might be dubious his descriptions of personal interaction within each of the East Asian countries (Bali, China, Hong Kong, Myanmar, India, the Phillipines, and Japan) are fair and touching journalism. I was completely fascinated and impressed by Iyer's ability to highlight the dynamism of culture which produces some sad power dynamics- via colonialism- but also some exciting and strange cultural expressions.",
   "I read this book in preparing for a trip to Asia - also, my boyfriend happened to own it. It was interesting, but to me, it was more that it captured the 1980s in Asia, rather than delivered any ground-breaking insight into the culture. In may cases, it was almost as if Iyer saw what he wanted to see - a single-minded Chinese populace, an introspective and peaceful Burma, an efficiency-oriented Japan etc. He does point out some contrarian aspects of each culture, but the bulk of the writing seems to confirm stereotypes. However, I have yet to visit Asia (September!), so he may have been speaking the truth. I'll let you know. The writing itself was entertaining enough to keep me engaged though - clever, colorful, even sometimes a bit too much so. Overall, a quick amusing journey into a past Asia I'll never experience - supposedly, MUCH has changed.",
   "This was a fun book, very fast reading, even though quite dated (the 80s), about how East meets West through popculture. There was a part about Japan too, and judging by it I'd say the author has a good insight into the cultures he's writing about, for someone who doesn't speak the languages of the countries he's visited. Sure, he is a little bit too awed by the (putative) mysteriousness and perfectionism of Japan, so probably his highly poetic descriptions of other places - like Burma or Tibet - should be taken with a pinch of salt, but these are his stories, and they are well-written and emotionally engaging too. I liked the parts about Burma, Tibet, and the Philippines the best. Oh, and now I'm sorry I didn't get  The Lady and the Monk  for 500 yen when I could, but oh well such is life, maybe next time.",
   "I'm not typically a fan of travel books, but I found this one really enjoyable. Pico Iyer was more nuanced in his observations and they never felt too colonial or too preachy. He expressed as many sad and disappointed feelings as he did exciting ones, and it seemed like he had an energy about him that was neither too hippy-dippy-backpacker nor too stoic. I think a lot of these kinds of books at the end come to the same conclusion, maybe because it's so true, that is despite all the strange surface differences between us, we all share very similar human beliefs and desires - in a good way. And even though, as expected Iyer came to that same conclusion, as I have in my own journeys across Asia, it was interesting to see the views when walking through his footsteps. I'd liken this book to a hot-toddy. It's something you can curl up into, but it has a bite every now and then.",
   "Video Night in Kathmandu and Other Reports from the Not-So-Far East  by Pico Iyer (Vintage Departures 1988) (950.4283). This is an intriguing off-the-wall travel journal from the author's exploratory journey to the Far East. There are entries on Japan, China, Burma, Hong Kong, and Thailand, among others. Unlike the rest of the book, the entry on Thailand is concerned almost exclusively with sex tourism; the author's trip to the place was exceedingly sordid and creepy, which is unlike the reports I have heard from my own friends and acquaintances. Perhaps things have changed in Thailand in the thirty-odd years since this volume was published. I purchased my paperback copy in good condition from McKay's for $1.50 on 3/1/17. My rating: 7/10, finished 4/4/17. PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP",
   "A book of  I traveled to ____ and saw how East Meets West  stories. I mean, nothing wrong with that. Some of them were naturally interesting, particularly Burma, which he describes as this land lost in time. Also, he wrote this in 1988, but a lot of it feels like it was last year, particularly when he's discussing the up-and-coming Eastern business world. A lot of it reinforced stereotypes: Thailand has sex tourism, the Philippines is super US-influenced, Bali has ... lots of tourists, and India has so much of everything. Which could mean these are true. I just didn't get the sense that I was learning anything I wouldn't learn if I went to any of the countries he visited for a couple weeks. Still, he's not a bad writer. Held my attention.",
   "A somewhat dated travelogue of Asia, that examines the effects of Westernization on the East. The author's time in Asia happened in the mid 80s, with the latest visit being 1987. Obviously, Asia has changed immeasurably since then, and his descriptions of a Beijing full of bicycles, the Philippines under the Marcos regime, or Bollywood movies where the women are all plump, give the book a quaint  snapshot  feel. That said, much of Iyer's observations about some of the deeper cultural phenomena still ring true. Especially when describing the poverty and hope of Thailand, the Philippines, India, or Indonesia, Iyer's experiences aren't particularly different from what one faces today. Well written and an entertaining read for anyone interested in travel and culture in Asia.",
   "This book recounts Pico's Asian travels in the late 1980s. It reminded me of my own adventures, and the well written narratives brought back much of the fascination I felt originally. The exception was his description of India, where I found him to be off mark. Especially enjoyed Japan, Tibet, and Nepal. He found too much prostitution in Thailand when he should have found beauty. Suggests reading modern Asia writers Leithauser and Morley. Excellent read. I reread half of this book in Dec. 97 and still enjoyed it. This time I liked his China narrative more. Still find it to be very relative reminder of a more mature traveler than I was.",
   "Not quite finished yet... I have to admit, I was hoping for something else. It's a very dated book, from a privileged male solo traveller perspective. I assume this is an early book, and look forward to reading his later ones.  I find the writing to be repetitive at times, echoing nearly word for word a previous phrase.  Some of the essays drag in parts - too long and could have wrapped up his point in fewer words. Personally, I also find his perspective, reported interactions and observations paternalistic and off putting at times, yet interesting for how it highlights our shift in attitudes (In the West). I did love his command of language; the wordplay, and evocative imagery. ",
   'I read this book while I was travelling in northern India, and while it is a little out of date now (published in 1989), it captures so many of the weird and wonderful things about Asia. In some ways, I was nostalgic for the world described in this book at a time before the great homogenization of the internet.  Like Paul Theroux, Pico Iyer is a travel writer who writes about so much more than just what he sees and does. He is an interesting educated man who bring other cultural references, strange but true facts and deeply personal realizations to the pages of the book.  At times, I longed to join Pico on this travels - to experience the adventure and uncertainty of the open road. ',
   "Insightful but interminable. I was bored blank by the last 5 pages of each essay. His main sentiment for each region was interesting, but he reworded and repeated it endlessly. This was deadening when it should have been inspiring or at least enlightening. Maybe it was more so in the 80s, since this material has gotten out of date very quickly. I don't think Asia's changed much, but our perception of it has come to match what Iyer observed so much that his descriptions seem heavy-handed and self evident."],
  '_version_': 1748767601207541760},
 {'id': '33452',
  'author': 'Jeaniene Frost',
  'book_format': 'Mass Market Paperback',
  'description': "Dating the Prince of Darkness has its challenges...,Leila's psychic abilities have been failing her, and now she isn't sure what the future holds. If that weren't enough, her lover, Vlad, has been acting distant. Though Leila is a mere mortal, she's also a modern woman who refuses to accept the cold shoulder treatment forever-especially from the darkly handsome vampire who still won't admit that he loves her.,Like choosing between eternal love and a loveless eternity...,Soon circumstances send Leila back to the carnival circuit, where tragedy strikes. And when she finds herself in the crosshairs of a killer who may be closer than she realizes, Leila must decide who to trust- the fiery vampire who arouses her passions like no other or the tortured knight who longs to be more than a friend? With danger stalking her every step of the way, all it takes is one wrong move to damn her for eternity.",
  'genre': ['Paranormal',
   'Vampires',
   'Fantasy',
   'Romance',
   'Paranormal Romance',
   'Urban Fantasy',
   'Adult',
   'Supernatural',
   'Magic',
   'Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1352947741l/13125234.jpg',
  'isbn': '62076108',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13125234-twice-tempted',
  'page_count': '360',
  'rating': 4.24,
  'review_count': 2537,
  'title': 'Twice Tempted',
  'rating_count': 40404,
  'sensitivity': ['anxiety',
   'demons',
   'violence',
   'bones',
   'torture',
   'death',
   'fire',
   'blood'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'dying',
   'predictable',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'magic',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'incredible',
   'rushed',
   'missing',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'promising',
   'twist',
   'emotional',
   'struggling',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'screamed',
   'torture',
   'magnificent',
   'spoilers',
   'original',
   'charming',
   'captivated',
   'entertaining',
   'melted',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'smile',
   'fantastic',
   'powerful',
   'sucks',
   'important',
   'obsessed',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'worse',
   'best',
   'dreaming',
   'special',
   'sweet',
   'surprised',
   'captivating',
   'witty',
   'mess',
   'irritating',
   'bothered',
   'virgin',
   'attention',
   'circus',
   'dull',
   'hated',
   'sassy',
   'top',
   'revenge',
   'hate',
   'worthy',
   'steamy',
   'shocked',
   'worst',
   'enjoyed',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'touching',
   'blushed',
   'heart',
   'repetitive',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'beautiful',
   'annoying',
   'rivals',
   'sexy',
   'trash',
   'detailed',
   'drama',
   'light',
   'exceptional',
   'fierce',
   'struggle',
   'smiled',
   'epic',
   'trick',
   'cute',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'stupid',
   'bizarre',
   'poor',
   'funny',
   'blackmail',
   'interesting',
   'different',
   'psychic',
   'dumb',
   'melt',
   'banter',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'magical',
   'painful',
   'cliffhanger',
   'contemporary',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy'],
  'review': ["5 Mrs. Dracula Stars First read 3/4/2014  Reread 12/5/2015  Re reread 11/30/2019 Reread 4/28/21 Reread 8/17/2021 Reread 5/3/22 *Spoilers*  The dress, the fancy dinner, all your flattering words, then the jewelry box.  I ticked the items off on my fingers.  Really, what was I supposed to think?  His snort cut me to the bone.  Anything but that. You and I have been together mere months. Do you know how insignificant that is to someone my age?  A fresh wave of hurt made my tone scalding.  Yes, you're almost six hundred years old, but in today's world, when you say things like 'eternal bond' before giving your girlfriend a ring-sized box, there's usually only one kind of ring in it! -Leila and Vlad       It hurts too much to be close to you, but continually pushed away.  His expression changed to disbelief.  You're leaving me? -Leila and Vlad   Twice Tempted , the 2nd book in the Night Prince Series, was better then the first. And that is saying a lot because the first one was awesome! So much happens in this book. Wow lets just see if I can remember to name it all. Okay so the book picks up right where the last one left off. Leila and Vlad are having problems because Leila is worried that Vlad don't want her anymore because she lost her power( they don't know if it's temporary or not) Vlad tries to show Leila that he still wants her by giving her his sire line ring (meaning he wants to turn her into a vampire) at a fancy dinner in front of a lot of people which lead to Leila and Vlad having a huge embarrassing misunderstanding that leads to them breaking up.   Tell me you love me and I'll stay. Hell, tell me you'll be open to the IDEA of loving me and I'll stay. Tell me anything except to resign myself to always ranking a distant second to the coldness you keep wrapping around your heart.-Leila      In the past month, I've been rejected, blown up, shot at, drugged, and kidnapped, but I'd rather go through all of that again than hold your hand while acting like . . . like everything that happened between us doesn't matter.  My voice cracked.  Maybe it doesn't to you, but even being around you hurts and I can't pretend that touching you won't be a thousand times worse. -Leila Leila leaves Vlad and goes back to stay with Marty. Then someone tries to kill Leila, Maximus saves Leila then they try to find who tried to kill her. Then she and Maximus get kidnapped. Then she kicks some major ass and gets ahold of Vlad to help. Then her and Vlad get back together. Then they get married! Then someone tries to kill her a few more times. Then she dies and becomes a vampire. Then there is some awesomely dirty blood sex........(they are so naughty) Then they hunt down the people that tried to kill Leila. I think I got it all! Pfff See a lot happened!  I'd want our wedding to be special. I don't have a dress, you don't have a best man, and instead of flowers, we have corpses on poles decorating the front of the house.   Flowers are on the way, as is my best man, three seamstresses are ready to make any dress you desire, and I'll have the corpses taken down,  he replied without missing a beat.-Leila and Vlad My father cast a calculated look at the items on the silver serving tray in front of him. Vlad flashed him a charming smile.  You'd never succeed.  For a second, I didn't understand. Then my mouth fell open.  Dad! You were not thinking of stabbing my fiance with a silver knife! -Vlad and Leila  You think I object because he's a vampire?  my father snapped.  If you were marrying Marty, I'd give my blessing because he's a good man. He  - a finger stabbed in Vlad's direction -  is not.  I sighed.  You saw the corpses on the lawn, didn't you?  My father let out a scoff.  As if I couldn't tell before that. I told you, Leila, I can read people, and without a doubt, Vlad is the most violent person I've ever met. -Leila's dad and Leila     Yesterday, I woke up in the infirmary still nursing a broken heart. Today, I woke up in Vlad's bed as Mrs. Dracula. What a difference a day made.  If you introduce yourself to anyone as Mrs. Dracula, I'll bite you in a manner you won't enjoy.  I smiled without opening my eyes. Some things didn't change, like Vlad being grumpy when he first woke up.  I'm quaking with fear.  -Leila and Vlad At the start of the book I have to say I was so embarrassed for Leila. I actually felt it. I think I blushed and everything. And Vlad I wanted to kick his ass. He was so stupid not to see how that ring party would look. But when they got back together Vlad melted my heart and made me fall in love with his complex, dark self all over again. The thing I love about Vlad is that even though he falls in love it doesn't change who he is. He is still Vlad to his core. I love him and Leila together. I love that Leila doesn't back down to Vlad either. Vlad is a strong person he could never love a weak person. Poor Vlad I feel bad for him when he was betrayed by a friend. Cat makes a cameo appearance after the wedding which made me miss Bones and Cat. Good thing their book is up next. The story was a great addition to The Night Huntress Universe. If you love PNR or Urban fantasy you should check this whole series out starting with Bones and Cat!   Love is a terrible weakness. It gives your enemies a perfect target, clouds your judgment, makes you reckless . . . and that's on a good day.  His hands continued their caressing path to my waist, their heat barely diminished by the thin material of my robe.  On a bad day,  he went on, his voice turning harsh,  it can destroy you. I never wanted to subject myself to that again, so yes, I kept you at arm's length. I even let you leave to prove to myself that you meant no more to me than my previous lovers. And then Martin called, telling me you'd been killed.  His grip tightened painfully before he released me, his hands clenching into fists at his sides.  I didn't care about anything then. Not crushing my enemies, protecting my people, or how maddening you were by expecting me to behave like a modern man, as if I could shrug off half a millennium of living, based on your whim. -Vlad  This place stinks.   Did the guards forget to spray Febreze?  Vlad asked in mock indignation. Then he gave me a jaded look.  It's a dungeon, Leila. They're supposed to smell.  Mission accomplished. The stench might have actually killed my new appetite. If Hell could fart, it would smell like this.-Leila and Vlad",
   'Joint review with Aly to come soon :) Btw, I LOVED it ;) ------------------------------------------------------- March 2013!?!?!?!?!?!?!? Oh my God....please time go by fast!!!',
   "[  The marriage thing was a little too soon for me but who am I? Vlad did it to please Leila, some kind of human formality thing. I also felt bad for Vlad because he lost two of his closest friends. I was getting the traitor vibe from Maximus but Shrapnel? I didn't see that one coming. Too bad, I really liked him.  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "You know, Vlad was just so awesome in this one. However, I can already see him slipping into Frost's default  whatever you wish, darling  male characters. I would really like if the character remained mostly the same as they were before meeting their love. But I wish the ending wasn't so fast. It ended when it was finally interesting;).  Wonder when we will see Maximus again.",
   "Once burned....twice tempted So good! Leila is furious! Maybe it is because Leila has lost her “gift” and she feels helpless.... Maybe it is because Vlad does not seem to care for her needs (There is no bathroom in his room!)...  Maybe it is because Vlad wants to make her a vampire (Doesn't he like the fact that she is a puny human?)... Maybe it is because this wedding proposal is not offered... ...So...Leila leaves Vlad and surprisingly Vlad lets her abandoning him. Leila goes back at US, but Martin has already found a replacement, new enemies appear and some old friends -although they seem like they want to help- cannot be trusted (Maximus, what are you trying to do?). Leila is penniless and desperate. Has Vlad really let her leave him? “You should be afraid. Very afraid. Before, I told you if you wanted to end things between us, I would let you go, but, Leila --his voice deepened-- I lied.”  This is another incredible book! It has everything: angst, mystery, desperation, bad and not so bad vampires, unconditional love and finally a first-class, amazing wedding with many friends. Vlad and Leila, congratulations! “As if I'd settle for anything less than making you completely mine, as soon as possible.” He was so close his features were a blur, yet his eyes had never gleamed brighter. I closed mine and it made no difference. I could still see his through the shield of my lids.  I am yours,  I whispered, and it wasn't only a statement. It was a promise.",
   "[But nope, not her. She had to become clingy and humiliate both of them before she finally got that he couldn't give her what she wanted. And of course after that she had to believe the worst of him(believe he was capable of some pretty awful things-and willing to do them-) because... well, the only reason I can think of was that did what he had promised from the beginning, protected and sexed her up without promising his undying love. Yeap, I can deffinitely see why she would believe that after he gave her exactly what he promised her, he could do the things she suspects him for.  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "5 Searing Stars!! That's what I'm talking about! BURN BABY BURN…Vlad set me on Fire!!  FINALLY  we get the sexy, snarky Vlad we have come to love from  The Night Huntress  series! This book was so much better than the first one. Leila grew into her character and Vlad has come back to us!! They will never be Cat and Bones, and I wouldn't want them to be, but they are a unique fun couple in their own right. The steam factor was off the charts, they don't call him 'The Impaler' for nothing. Actually it's for other reasons, but in my mind...well you get the picture. I loved the witty banter between Vlad and Leila, which usually led to more impaling! *snicker* When we entered the first chamber of the dungeon, the stench made me recoil. It smelled like someone had mixed together kerosene, rotten fruit, stale blood, urine, and dog shit, then blown it up. How had I not noticed this before? I wasn't even breathing, but the rancid odor found its way into my nose anyway. “This place stinks.” “Did the guards forget to spray Febreze?” Vlad asked in mock indignation. Then he gave me a jaded look. “It's a dungeon, Leila. They're supposed to smell.” Vlad, he's so old school and barbaric, yet such a modern man! I listened to this book on audio and then went back and read my favorite parts. I love the audio version and Tavia Gilbert does an amazing Vlad, Romanian accent and all! When he says Leila…long and drawn out…Leeiiiiiilaaaa…it just made me melt!  This book gave me that feeling I had when I first read  Halfway to the Grave . Plenty of action, world-building, fantastic secondary characters, a real page turner! I'm excited to see where this series is going, and I can't wait to spend more time with Vlad and Leila! Jeaniene Frost, you did good!  I had a pic I was going to post of Vlad, but when I saw  Dorsey's , I put mine aside because  she nailed it  !!! This is the picture I will have in my head as I continue to read this series. She also posted some of my favorite quotes and wrote a great review! Our love for Vlad shows no bounds, does it my friend?! We are Vlad groupies!  Dorsey gifted me my own Vlad pic to post on my review!! He's so perfect, thank you my dear sweet friend!! MUAH!!!  The Impaler ~ Vlad!!!     ",
   " reread 9/2020  -----------------------------------  4.5 fiery Dracula stars!  Loved this Vlad follow up!! Leila and Vlad are my 2nd favorite couple in the Night Huntress World (second only to Cat and Bones of course). Leila is by far the best heroine of the spin-offs. She's a strong, admirable lady and I love that she refuses to be second best in life and stands by her choices. Great plot, great angst, and a great romance. I highly recommend the Night Prince series and it can be easily read without reading any other connected books (but I still urge you to read Halfway to the Grave first). One note, others have said that this Vlad is not the same as the one we met in Cat's books, but I choose to think of him as a different character in this book, so it doesn't bother me as much. Follow me on ♥  Facebook  ♥  Blog  ♥  Instagram  ♥  Twitter  ♥",
   "Spoilers… A Very Long, Ranty and Disorganised Review What the hell was this? I thought  Once Burned  was an okay read - it was cliched and predictable but it had its entertaining moments. I obviously didn't expect much from  Twice Tempted  but I didn't think it'd be this fucking awful. It was positively horrible.  I'm even more pissed because I loved Cat and Bones's books (even though the last few have been boring) and I quite liked Spade and Mencheres's books too. Sadly, Vlad's books make me want to throw up. It was like no effort or thought or imagination were put into his books. They're bloody awful. I loved Vlad in the  Night Huntress  series, he was mysterious, attractive, funny and caring. I couldn't wait to read his spin-off. Unfortunately, he turned into a dull, cliched loser. I could have coped with that if not for the fact that he was paired with a boring clingy doormat who had no self respect. Ugh.  Leila was kind of blah in the first book but in this one she was down right annoying. I was hoping she would drop dead and Vlad's vampires would just dump her in a dustbin… And then maybe Vlad could disappear for a century or two to cleanse himself of all that Leila awfulness so he could return with an actual personality. No such luck though. The worst thing about  Twice Tempted  was Vlad and Leila. They were boring, insufferable, cliched, pathetic, lame, rubbish and cringey. If I was Leila I would have stopped whining and told Vlad to fuck off, then had sex with that other vampire bloke and kept him on the side for his super healing blood, and then joined the carnival again and become a free loving hippie. Did Leila do that? No, she just whined and moaned like a cow. If I was Vlad, I would have impaled Leila and not in a sexy way. I would have used dozens of metal pikes to slowly kill her.  What did Vlad see in Leila? She was the worst.  I think that Leila just wore Vlad down and forced him into having feelings for her. I don't think Vlad truly loved Leila, she was unloveable and he treated her like shit for too long to make me believe he loved her. A breakdown of Vlad and Leila's relationship : Leila:  I love you so so so so so so so much. Do you be also loving me? Vlad:  No. Leila:  Please please pwease be wuving me. Me no like how you torture people. It no nice. I loving you lots yea? You please loving me? Thank you, please. Vlad:  No. Fuck off. Leila:  I go now. Remember I be always loving you. I no be loving you being the cold torturer bastard but I still loving you. Vlad:  That makes no sense.  Leila:  Vlad being so evul and mean. I love him so so much. What do now? Other Vampire Dude:  Vlad is despicable. Why on earth do you love him? Leila : You no understand. I hate him because he evul but I love him, all of him. Why no-one understand that? It being so simple. I love the Vlad but I hate the Vlad personality. You see why I loving him?! Vlad:  I built you a toilet. Let's get married. Leila:  A toilet and a marriage? A toilet must be meaning you loving me. All I ever being wanted is the toilet.  Vlad:  I bought you toilet paper too. Leila:  I being the luckiest girl in the whole widest world!! I be getting a toilet and a toilet paper that be meaning I being the loved like no other. All other girl being jealous of my toilet.  Leila:  Vlad, come! Come watching me on the toilet machine! Look what I do! Vlad:  Ugh. Fin. Other Random Thoughts: -Leila leaves Vlad because she's a loser and he's a douche. She goes back to her carnie life and mates and then someone blows up her trailer. Naturally, Leila puts on her Mary Sue knickers and investigates. Yes, it was as boring as it sounds. -Leila's voice and attitude was beyond irritating. She sounded like a tween girl instead of a grown woman. She said things like:  Yuck, this days sucks, Eat me! TMI, If Hell could fart, it would smell like this, I was chillaxin'.  And she also burped in a vampire's face… She was so immature and childish.  And the way Leila kept monologuing about how slutty she was really pissed me off. The silly cow has only had one sexual partner yet she calls herself slutty!  -I was sick of Leila's inner fucking voice. I felt like I was reading 50 Shades of Grey. Oooh my inner voice said this and oooh my inner voice is saying that now. It wasn't cute or endearing, it was just annoying. -How dumb was Vlad when he made a big song and dance about Leila and then presented her with something that looked like an engagement ring box? Of course, she would have thought he was proposing! He was so thick. And why would he even offer to make her a vampire without discussing it with her first? It was dumb. And Leila was just as stupid. Why would she get happy that he was 'proposing' when they'd only been dating for a few months and when Vlad hadn't even told her he loved her? What a silly cow. -I thought it was dumb that Leila didn't clock on to the fact that her 'dreams' of Vlad were actually real. It was so fucking obvious. -I think Leila only loved Vlad because he was powerful, attractive and immune to her powers. It was a shallow and superficial love. -Why the fuck was there a description of a love triangle in the synopsis? It was the lamest love triangle ever. It wasn't even a love triangle. Maximus never stood a chance. Leila was obsessed with Vlad, she wasn't torn about who she wanted. Maximus wasn't even competition for Vlad. Lame. The synopsis is misleading, I was expecting a love triangle but got nothing. -Leila's thoughts were similar to a tween girl with a crush. It was all so cringey, pathetic, cheesy, cliched and desperate. Leila was boring as fuck. What does Vlad see in her? I lost all respect for Leila when she was begging Vlad to love her, and I hated her when she said she'd stay with him if he could one day possibly love her. WTF?! Basically she would have stayed with him for years loving him and not being loved back because there was a small chance he might one day love her. Ugh. Have some self respect girl! -It was obvious that Vlad never loved Leila. He was always cold to her, plus it took him ages to build her that fucking toilet she wanted! -I can't buy the love between a hero and heroine when the hero watches the heroine suffering because he refuses to say he loves her. If he had loved her he wouldn't have hurt her or watched her be in pain, all because he couldn't say three fucking words. Vlad being occasionally growly and possessive doesn't translate into love. -If Leila's life hadn't been threatened would Vlad have even bothered with her again? No. She would have grown old, bitter and alone dreaming about Vlad and Vlad would have just replaced her with another lover -Vlad pushed Leila so far that she had to use her powers to prove that she loved him… which led to her dying. Bones/Mencheres/Spade would never make Cat/Kira/Denise feel so shit that they felt like they had to kill themselves to show that they were worthy of Bones and co's love. Vlad only gave Leila the time of day because she killed herself for him. Bones and co can show affection and softness when they're around Cat and co but does Vlad show any affection towards Leila? No, he treats her like he treats everyone else, like shit. When he's with Leila he just acts a little more hornier… Yet I'm meant to believe Vlad's deeply in love with Leila?! How is being horny and kind of possessive love?! -I think Leila and Vlad have some feelings for each other but I don't believe that they're each others one true love or whatever. I think that Leila loves him in a way a tween girl loves their favourite pop star… And I think Vlad has some feelings for her because 1. She was a virgin when he fucked her and 2. He's intrigued by her unique powers.   -Vlad's true love was his first wife — he was mourning her for centuries and he's never gotten over her, and her death changed him completely… Leila has never and will never elicit those sort of feelings and change in Vlad.  I actually wish Vlad's HEA could have been with his reincarnated first wife or something — maybe then he'd be a more three dimensional character instead of the caricature that he is. -I don't find Vlad's flat, dark, cliched, cold, broody personality attractive AT ALL - maybe with his first wife he could have shown a different side and shown some depth to his character. Instead he's with boring pathetic desperate Leila who he either ignores, belittles or acts possessive or lusty towards. And that's not enough for me to believe that he 1. Loves her and 2. Has a layered and complex personality. -I found Vlad's sudden commitment to Leila bizarre. One minute he was cold and uninterested and the next he wanted marriage and couldn't stop saying I love you to Leila. It was dumb and I didn't buy what Vlad was saying because there was very little evidence to support his I love you's. -The wedding was rubbish — there was nothing romantic about it, probably because it was rushed and because Vlad and Leila's love was shallow at best.   -It was grating how Leila described Vlad every time she saw him. I already know he's fit and wears sexy clothes. I don't need to be told a thousand bloody times.  -I was pissed that Leila was treated like shit by all of Vlad's vampires as soon as she broke up with him. She thought they were her friends but they turned their backs on her as soon as she wasn't fucking Vlad… Basically all her friendships with Vlad's vampires were false and reliant on Leila being Vlad's girlfriend… Nice.  The only reason the other vampires are friendly to her at the end was because she was with Vlad again. So Leila has to live centuries with a bunch of vampires who only pretend to like her because she's dating Vlad. What a bunch of fuckers. -Leila treated Maximus like shit. Marty and Maximus were the only decent characters. -I got sick of Leila talking about her twagic scar. Get over it! She acted like she was disfigured and ugly... She obviously wasn't. Loads of fit guys fancied her and it couldn't have been for her rubbish personality so it must have been because she was gorgeous. Oh boo hoo, poor Leila has a little scar on her beautiful face. Ugh. -Leila's sister and dad treated her like shit. They've not been a part of her life for years and they've shown no interest in her but as soon as she becomes a part of the vampire world, they're all up in her arse. I liked that Leila's sister slapped her though, I would have liked it more if her sister wasn't such an awful character. -Ugh. Really? The cliched jealous ex-girlfriend that can't get over the hero because he's just that desirable. Give me a break. -The characters were cliched, the writing was flat and the story was predictable and dull. Skip Vlad's books because they're utter rubbish. It's filled with one dimensional characters, a loveless and passionless romance and an unimaginative story.  If you want to read a half decent vampire romance then read Cat/Bones's, Spade/Denise's and Kira/Mencheres's books… They're not perfect but unlike  Twice Tempted , they are romantic and fun.",
   "I still don't understand what happened to the characters I met in the first book. I really enjoyed the first book. I liked both Vlad and Leila. I loved the whole mystery surrounding his character, his darkness, his arrogance and his possessive unapologetic behavior. I loved Leila's innocence, her bravery and her struggle to understand and control her powers. I also like that she feared him, but at the same time felt this uncontrollable pull towards him.  But in this book I almost didn't recognized her. She was whiny, demanding, constantly nagging him. What I dislike the most about this book was the fact that she made her decisions based on assumptions instead of actual facts.  For me, the story started to go south pretty early in the book. - WARNING SPOILERS - The whole scene with the ring was ridiculous. I understand why she would assume that, but her reaction to it was very childish. First of all, if there was anything to be pissy about it was the fact that he wanted to turn her into a vampire. But she didn't dwell on it for very long. She started to nag him why he haven't said I love you to her. Let's back up a little. When she first saw the jewelry box she started to squirm in her seat and couldn't wait to say  yes  even without his I love you, so why complain about it afterwards? Vlad have lived, loved, hated, suffered and killed for hundreds of years. He's a vampire who doesn't live by our mortal rules. I would say she had a thing or two to learn from him. I was on his side when it came to the whole I love you thing.   Words.  His tone sharpened.  I shared my house, my bed, and my blood with you, as well as offered you a place in my life forever. What are words compared to that?  He was trying to tell her that actions speak louder than words, which is true, but she was still stomping her foot and pushing him to tell her that he loved her. And when he didn't she told him it was over. It was so annoying.  Another thing that I didn't like was cartoon-like descriptions. Which made it hard for me to get into the story and take it seriously. Leila comparing the remains on a deck to a lasagna and the crime scene at the hotel she compared to a Swiss cheese. You've got to be kidding me? I expected to be scared, grossed out or creeped out, but it was written to sound like an anecdote. It's a story about a prince of darkness, is it not? Not an episode of The Simpsons.  I thought that her constantly calling him ex-boyfriend completely ruined and emasculated his character. Why don't you just call him Vlad? But she made it sound like he was some nerdy boy next door.  Here are some of  WTH  lines:  Come on, I silently urged. Drill, baby, drill!   I'd soon smell like eau de slut.  Then, there was a reason why Vlad brought her back to Romania for the second time.  If I do nothing when someone attempts to blow up and then kidnap my former lover, my enemies will think I'm weak and attack more of my people.  But that is the complete apposite. Your enemies will think you are week if you try to hide every ex lover you ever had. It shows your weakness. Isn't that what they do, exploit them? The author needed to come up with a better reason for him to bring her with him, because this one didn't make any sense. Then, the scene where her sister slapped her. Is that the first thing you do after you find out your sister Is alive? Don't even get me started on the whole wedding thing. It was beyond silly.  First, it was to late, then too soon and then not soon enough. Suddenly the I love you's started flying left and right, and the proposal out of the blue. And, the wedding, which had to happen the same day. The dress got designed and made the same day. Vlad also managed to invite 2000 people in that short amount of time. One day! - END OF SPOILERS - They managed to completely forget that there was a killer on a loose, hungry for revenge. The only characters I liked was Vlad and her father, who was a man of reason. I didn't finished the book, I stopped at 61% because I just couldn't take anymore of that silliness. I'm sorry to say, but I won't be reading anymore books in the series. But I hear that Jeanine's Frost Night Huntress series is quite good, I'll go and try that instead.",
   "One of the things I love about this author are her great one-liner beginning sentences that   instantly engage you  into the story   “Flying at high speeds through a forest is less dangerous than it looks. At least that's what I told myself the few times I opened my eyes.”      Every time I start one of Jeanine Frost's books, I'm instantly thrown into an amazing world where this new character  *another possible love of my life*  is performing some great daring feat  Both  Leila and Vlad  experience some character development in the this second book. Adapting to their new circumstances and of course gotta fight the new bad guy   “I caught up to him instead. “What part of 'we do this together' did you translate as 'leave Leila behind'?” I hissed, keeping my voice down since we weren't the only ones with supernatural hearing.”   The more I read about Leila, the more I love her.  I'm use to more reckless characters but she is more a plotter of schemes which I quickly learned to love as well. In general, I would begin with Cat's series then follow up with  Vlad&Leila's hot steamy dangerous epic adventure",
   '4.5 Stars My Vlad aka Prince of Darkness My Leila ♥♥♥♥♥♥',
   "Twice Tempted by Jeaniene Frost Night Prince series, book 2. You should read the prior book for the best context.  This book travels far in terms of changes for Leila. At first Leila thinks Vlad is going to propose but when that doesn't happen, she walks away from him. An attempt is made on her life and then events are happening fast and spinning out of control.  Often bloody and violent, the story is full of vampires making their own lives important, even if at the cost of others. But like life, there is good with the bad. I look forward to reading more of this series because: CLIFFHANGER! I alternated between a paperback and audio version narrated by Tavia Gilbert. Tavia does a fantastic job alternating between voices and empathizing passion and anxiety. ",
   "Some spoilers here Twice Tempted is 2nd book in the Night Prince Series which is set in Jeanine Frost's Night Huntress world and continues Vlad & Leila's love story….which is still going thru some “bumpy” times. Vlad is still a commitment phobe…struggling to let go of the demons in his past and giving in to his feelings for Leila. Leila wants more than just being Vlad's bedmate and when he offers her immortality instead of telling her that he loves her….she decides that's it….leave Romania and go back to her carnival home. But soon Leila finds herself being targeted by an unknown forces, she finds herself unable to trust who her friends are and even if she can trust Vlad. Fast paced action …..and lots of things happen in this story… More about Vlad's past and the history with his father Vlad finally realizing how much Leila means to him…     Leila turning into a vampire Leila's magical powers And…..of course the wedding….OMG…so amazing..      I really liked this book. Lost myself into the story and loved reading Vlad & Leila's love story….it's impossible not to root for their HEA… I am so looking forward to the next book!! My favourite quote:    ",
   "     I'd rather bleed to death.   If you were anyone else, those would be your last words.      3.5 stars.  Maybe we're not quite at the point of pure Vlad depth but at least this time we got to see more tyranny at work.     Two vampires hung from the spiked silver chains embedded in the rock, a third impaled in front of them.  That's sick, I breathed.      Nobody probably cares about that except for me, I'm guessing. It's hard for me to imagine though, to figure out how gruesome Vlad should be portrayed, while he's still somehow supposed to be a love interest.  Leila seems to handle her prince of darkness just fine. She isn't one for sugar coating things. I can get behind that. Do I think she's taking everything in stride a bit too easily? Perhaps. While she realizes what he's done, does she really get it? Seeing the bigger picture through visions would have had me headed for the hills! This wasn't the most action-packed book from Frost. There were some story lulls, I thought, but the getting was good enough for me to overlook a few lazy moments. The magic from the first few Night Huntress books still isn't there yet and the chemistry isn't quite at the Cat and Bones level, but there was a mini version of the infamous chapter 32 which happened after a big turning point in Leila's life. It was verrah nice. You'll just have to experience it for yourself if you want to know! Even though Vlad and Leila are still stumbling through their feelings, there were still plenty of moments which stood out.      I can barely stand the sight of you because you're more beautiful than I've allowed myself to remember.      Leila has a bit of the Cat possessiveness and insecurity (she even had an inner voice *facepalm*). I wasn't real thrilled to see this.  I can't say that I found  Twice Tempted  to be the tightest-written second installment for a series but after a few just okay books, this worked fine for what I wanted to read in the moment. I'm looking forward to what's up next for these new partners in crime. But please, no more  love is a drug  crap. I get enough of it in my contemporaries.  His embrace was my drug of choice, and as any addict knew, one sampling was too many - and a thousand never enough.  Boo. ",
   "I've said it before, but I'm betting a lot of you boys didn't believe me. So I'm gonna say it again:   When there's a vampire in a Paranormal Romance...he will eventually chomp on the heroine's Happy Bean!   Case in point:  Page 282 - All thought cleared my mind when his fangs replaced his tongue, piercing my clitoris instead of licking it. Ta-da! Of course that has nothing to do with the review, but I thought you guys might like to know what exactly your ladies are reading. Word to the wise, though. Some things only work in the fantasy world of books. I wouldn't suggest you try that little trick out at home. You're not a sexy vampire, you (hopefully) don't have fangs, and I doubt many women will appreciate someone chewing on their sensitive bits. Just sayin'. So I normally don't venture into the world of PNR much anymore, but I make an exception for Jeaniene Frost. Most of her stuff is rooted in Urban Fantasy, and there's always a great underlying story being told to go along with all of the lovey-dovey stuff. Her Night Prince series is a spin-off of the Cat and Bones series (aka the Night Huntress series), and it features my favorite character, Vlad. I still like the Cat and Bones books, but every time Vlad makes an appearance, he kicks up the story a few notches. I have to admit that he's not  quite  as cool in his own series. Maybe that's because he isn't playing off of Bones? Not sure. At any rate, this was still a solid story, and a good addition to the Night Prince storyline. I saw some other reviews that thought Leila got a bit whiny in this one, but I didn't think she was annoying. I thought she was justified in asking for  more  out of their relationship. Whatever. To each his own. For PNR with a good plot, you can't beat Frost.  I'll definitely read the next book when it comes out!",
   "I haven't read Once Burned, and here I am, craving for the second book of Night Prince series. I'll say it out loud, I love Vlad! There! Vlad is my favorite character aside from the-obvious-Bones. He, alongside with Ian, seems to have a sick humor. They are interesting! I want Vlad's book to be more than 2 books, and I want Ian to have his own story! Make it happen, Ms. Frost! :D Edit: I've read Once Burned, and I'm completely and utterly satisfied! Ms. Frost never fails to impress me! Edit: Gosh! What an awesome read! This made me craving for more! I hate to wait, but the waiting was really worth it! Now, have to wait for Up from the Grave!",
   "  Fantastic!!!!!    Loved it!! Jeaniene Frost never disappoints. I loved  Once Burned  but I have to say  Twice Tempted  is even better!!! Book description: Dating the Prince of Darkness has its challenges... Leila's psychic abilities have been failing her, and now she isn't sure what the future holds. If that weren't enough, her lover, Vlad, has been acting distant. Though Leila is a mere mortal, she's also a modern woman who refuses to accept the cold shoulder treatment forever-especially from the darkly handsome vampire who still won't admit that he loves her.    “You should be afraid. Very afraid. Before, I told you if you wanted to end things between us, I would let you go, but, Leila --his voice deepened-- I lied.”     “No one feels like you do, so every brush of your skin is a cruel reminder of what I've lost. I can barely stand the sight of you because you're more beautiful than I've allowed myself to remember, and when I cut that wire off Maximus and smelled you all over him, I wanted to kill him more than I've wanted to kill anyone in my life, yet I couldn't because of my promise to you.”     “If you introduce yourself to anyone as Mrs. Dracula, I'll bite you in a manner you won't enjoy.”   I felt  Once Burned  was more about Leila and her POV  Twice Tempted  was all Vlad and we see the Vlad Tepesh we know and love from the  Night Huntress/Night Huntress World  novels. I cannot wait for book 3!!        Reread on: 9.22.20",
   "March 2013. I can't wait until 2013. I need this sooner. Pleeease.      I need more Vlad. Shirtless Vlad, please. And more Maximus.     UPADATE I loved it because I love everything Jeaniene Frost writes and because I really liked Vlad, Leila and Maximus in Once Burned. Besides, Vlad was one of my favorite characters in the Night Huntress series. But I still have a few problems with it. One of my problems was Gretchen. If I hear that bitch talking trash about my country again I'm going to:     and then:     I don't know how Vlad can stand her. She's a gold digger and a bitch who cares more about money and shopping than she cares about her own sister. I can't understand why Leila forgives Vlad so easy all the time. He treats her awfully and more than once Vlad made me feel that he only wants Leila for her special powers. If he loved her he wouldn't have let her leave him. It seems he cared more about appearances than about her. Maximus cared more about her and risked his life to protect her knowing what Vlad will do to him.  I hope Vlad redeems himself in the next novel and Leila learns to stand up for hersef.",
   "My Rating:  ❤❤❤❤❤   EXCELLENT: The characteristics of a 5 star story include: an awesome story; and, I love everything about the story — characters, plot, and story elements. I would definitely read it again and I would highly recommend it to a friend and rave about it often.   Initial Reaction:  The. Best. Story. Ever. Jeaniene Frost manages to top herself every time!!! Rating's Breakdown:   Quality of writing:  Excellent Pace:  Fast and fluid Characters:  Dynamic! Absolutely captivating. We see one of history's fictional doppleganger's at his finest. Vlad is the ultimate definition of a lover and a fighter and Leila was no slacker in the kick a$$ heroine department. She almost rivals Cat in her fierceness. All of the characters were well thought out in how they acted as individuals and together.   Plot development:  Superb. Highly detailed and full of intricacies that kept the reader fully engaged in the story. Story line:  Exceptional! This is one of Frost's best stories and I love all of her books. Enjoyability:  Clearly there is something wrong if you've reached this point in this brief review and haven't realized that I loved this story *smile*. My emotions were all over the map while reading  Twice Tempted . <-- At the Beginning  (because I was so happy to be reading it) When Leila left... When Vlad came after her... When Maximus left... --> At the End  (because I was sorry to see it end). Heat Level:  Smoking hotttttt...quite literally     My Thoughts:     Twice Tempted    picks up immediately where  Once Burned  left off. Without providing any details about the story, because I'm strongly recommend that you pick up your own copy, I can say that this was one of Ms. Frost's best stories. This story was high-def all the way -- the imagery, the character depth, and their emotions and motivations. At almost 400 pages,  Twice Tempted  never lulled or dragged and was full throttle from start to finish. I don't know how Frost does it but I am amazed that she continues to write stories at such a superbly consistent level. Many of my favorite authors lose me after a while because their stories become trite or repetitive but never have I experienced that kind of disappointment with Frost.  Twice Tempted  was a BRILLIANT story. Read it! Love it! Bravo Ms. Frost! Bravo!!!   Visit The BookChick Blog    ",
   "4.5 stars     Dear Vlad,   Last year I wrote a sincere letter spilling my feelings. Now I have to confess that I wanted to punch you in the face when this book started and almost through the halfway mark. But I should also apologize because I should've never doubted how magnificent you are. The epitome of everything alpha male that I love and crave. You can be ruthless and you can be sweet. Scorching and yet oh so tender and romantic. But you are always YOU. Who would've thought I would fall more in love with you, yet here I am. Falling deeper in love with you. And having to share you with Leila. But it's ok, she's worthy of you and I can deal as long as I get Mr. Hot Hands to myself sometimes.   Your true lover,   Francesca   The Night Prince series has more of paranormal romance feel for me than Ms. Frost's Night Huntress. It is all about Vlad and Leila, how they work together, their romance grows, their powers expand and how they change for each other. Vlad took a turn for the worst in the beginning but I have to stay that throughout this series and even after falling in love, Ms. Frost has kept his character true to his self. He's a badass, he's dominating, he's powerful, and things supposed to go as he wants.   Leila wants more from him than he seems willing to give so she decides to leave. There is still a big bad after Vlad and now they are going after his next weakest link, which is Leila. There's suspense and action and an all too sexy vampire that steams up the pages with his personality, his anger and his sex appeal.   Through all this, I have to say Leila is a great heroine. She's smart and cautious, but she's strong enough to face things head on. She was again great in TWICE TEMPTED. She's able to stand up to big tough old vampires as well as her own family. She follows her heart and protects who she loves. I give her a great 5 stars for being such a memorable heroine and not letting herself be overshadowed by the greatness that is Vlad.   This was one of my favorite reads of this year, and not just because I'm crushing hard on Vlad. It was action packed, emotionally charged, and corchingly hot. What more could I ask for? Now I can't wait to see what's next!   Favorite Quotes:   I might've brought Vlad to his knees at last, but in so many ways, he would never bend. I knew that as surely as I knew I'd always love him, and it left me with only one answer.   “I dare because I want no misunderstand between us. I am everything you think I am, but I love your daughter, and what I love, I protect with all of the violence in me, which, as you've guessed, is considerable.”   Today, I woke up in Vlad's bed as Mrs. Dracula.   *ARC provided by publisher",
   "I loved this book so much!        His lips curled into something that wasn't quite a smile. “You don't really want me to love you, Leila.” I let out a soft scoff. “Is that what you tell yourself?” “It's what I know,” he said, a touch of anger coloring his tone.          Possible spoilers ahead       With Leila's abilities leaving her after Vlad saved her at the end of the previous book and Vlad distancing himself from her, Leila isn't sure what the future holds for her. But she refuses to accept the little Vlad is willing to give of himself, knowing he's capable of more. She has given him all of her, and she won't settle for less from him.    But Vlad is determined to keep his heart locked away and Leila soon finds herself back at the carnival circuit where it seems danger followed her. When tragedy strikes Leila doesn't know whom to trust - Vlad the vampire who crushed her heart or his right-hand man who wants to be more than just Leila's friend. Can Leila stay alive long enough to find the enemy intent on killing her?        Vlad made a sound too harsh to be a growl. “You won't be satisfied until you've brought me to my knees, is that it?” “Why not?” It shot out of me with all the recklessness of my still-broken heart. “You brought me to mine.”        I loved Leila in this book, how she wouldn't just accept the little Vlad was willing to offer her, that she forced him to realise his true feelings for her. I love how she continues to stand up to his controlling ways, but that she's also learning to compromise. She's still as feisty and reckless at times like in the first book, and I love that about her.         “You're the scariest man I've ever met, but I am not afraid of you. As for your enemies, let them come. I've survived them before and I will again.” “You should be afraid. Very afraid. Before, I told you if you wanted to end things between us, I would let you go, but, Leila”—his voice deepened—“I lied.”       I adored Vlad. He's one of the most complex heroes I've ever read, so good at keeping his true feelings hidden. His arrogance and stubbornness made me want to slap and jump him at times ;-D The fact that he's not a good man, he's not called Vlad the Impaler for nothing, but he's also not evil, makes me love him even more. He's loyal to those who are loyal to him and his painful and violent past has made him appreciate the things that most people take for granted. I loved his fierce protectiveness and possessiveness over Leila and once he let go of the tight control over his feelings, showing her how much she means to him, I was in romance heaven.         “How often must I tell you that you mean more to me than vengeance? I can live without defeating my enemies, but I cannot live without you.”        These two are one of my favorite couples ever! I thought their feelings were intense in the first book but it was nothing compared to this book. Their passion, their hurt and pain and their love sizzled across the pages. I love how their relationship continues to grow, the ups and downs of it, especially the downs because of Vlad not wanting to admit to himself what Leila really meant to him. All of it just made their romance that just more palpable. And the sexy times were SCORCHING!    The plot was excellent, so gripping and suspenseful with Leila trying to figure out who was trying to kill her, her uncertainty about who she can trust, and wondering if and when Leila and Vlad will get together again. The secondary characters were awesome, especially Maximus and I really wish he would get his own HEA too.    I didn't think I could love this book more than I loved the first one, but I did. The emotional rollercoaster ride of their romance, all the angst they had to go through, and the captivating suspense and action was excellent! I loved everything about this book and I can't wait to read the next book especially not after that ending. This is UF writing at its best.  Highly recommended!     Original review     I just love Vlad and Leila, and finally Vlad realises how he feels about Leila. This is a must read for all romance readers, you can't go wrong with Jeaniene Frost. I can't wait for the next installment.",
   "Vlad the Impaler gives even Bones a run for his money. And he's deliciously callous....maybe a touch overboard when it comes to protecting those he loves. To attempt some pun-ny...he's  bloody  awesome :D ",
   "Re-read Feb 2019 with the Girls at BB&B. Vlad, maybe I like you a little more the second time around.   “You can have all of me, I silently told him, but I'm taking all of you in return.”   Leila is an all or nothing kind of girl, Vlad is a my way or the highway kind of guy. Those two attributes don't always go so well together and personalities definitely clash at times throughout the book. Just when Leila is sure that Vlad's brother is dead and she is safe she returns to her old life only to find out someone is still trying to take her hostage again or kill her. But she isn't sure if it is Vlad or someone else. Maximus is trying to win her heart but it still only beats for Vlad a man she isn't quite sure she can trust. I still enjoy all of the Night Huntress books and there spin offs. They are always action packed and full of great bad guys. The love story of Leila and Vlad really captivated me, I liked being able to see inside of Vlad's head at times to really get a better idea of the man he is. At times he comes across as so harsh that he might seem quite unlovable but seeing the fierce side of him protecting the people around him makes him sympathetic.   “Vlad made a sound too harsh to be a growl.  You won't be satisfied until you've brought me to my knees, is that it?   Why not?  It shot out of me with all the recklessness of my still-broken heart.  You brought me to mine.”   The story always progresses along so fast and I can't help it I always finish these books in a day. The story totally took a different twist in the middle once Vlad and Leida worked out a few things. But once I thought about it a little I decided that why would Vlad wait to do anything once his mind was made up about it, he is a conqueror after all. So while there was a little bit of a shift from the story in the middle I just went with it since I really like the romance part as much as the action. If you like Vlad in the other series books no reason that you won't like this one as well. Little drift from the action but it set up for the next book about Leila and Vlad to kick some bad guy butt. There are small appearances from Bones, Cat and Menchures but not for more than just a few pages each. These can be read on there own but are definitely better if you have read all the other books in the Night Huntress Series first.",
   'LOVE THIS SERIES! The Dracula myth/real life legend has never felt so contemporary . . . or so sexy! ',
   "I liked this one better than the first book. There was tons of action, we got more insight into Vlad's feelings (which were deep) and Leila continued to be pretty kick ass. Leila had to take a hard stand with Vlad. Good for her! I actually appreciated the drama and angst because it helped develop and deepen their relationship.  Vlad's sociopathy is actually amusing. I know that sounds sick but his love of impaling enemies was a little funny.  His ex being a plot device could have really bothered me, but it did not. I appreciate the author not making us relive her time with the Hero in any favorable light. Overall, I really enjoyed this one! I just cannot give it 5 stars since it was missing something. Probably the Hero POV would have made up for it. BTW - I am listening to this series on audio and the narrator is really excellent!",
   "Twice Tempted in the second book in the Night Prince series by Jeaniene Frost. When this ARC copy arrived in my mailbox I screamed like a little girl. My neighbors looked at me funny. My dogs took cover thinking I was finally losing it. My family even wondered if I had finally lost it. Vlad, oh-sweet-lord-above-Vlad, how you love to mess with my heart. Leila has finally had it with Vlad when we pick up shortly after the last book ended. She decides that if Vlad can't admit his feelings for her and express them with three little words, then obviously she isn't worth enough to keep. When he can't give them to her, he lets her walk away from him. There is actually quite a bit that happens between the beginning and when she leaves, but I am not going to reveal too much so that it won't spoil the book for you. I will say that someone close to Vlad -- and a previous character in the series -- does stick around her and tries to keep her safe. This person also tries to make her see that Vlad is not the one she should love. When Leila returns home to the carnival, she doesn't get to resume her previous life though. Someone is hunting her and keeping one step ahead in the plot to kill her. When the carnival is rigged with a bomb, Vlad is led to believe that Leila is dead at first. A grieving Vlad is not a Vlad to mess with. Although as scary as Vlad can be, Leila has a backbone that is just as strong. When she falls asleep, she is somehow connecting with Vlad. At first she thinks it is a dream, but later on we find out it was real. So thinking Vlad is just a dream, she lets her backbone stand at full attention with him. His brows drew together like thunderclouds.  Enough of this. Tell me where you are.  I almost said,  South Bend, Indiana  because what was the harm in telling Dream Vlad? Then I paused. Why would I gratify Dream Vlad, either?  I'm at the corner of None of Your Business and Screw You.  --Leila with Vlad, page 95 in ARC copy Needless to say, Vlad does finally catch up to Leila and he is not a happy camper folks. He is 'fuming' -- pun intended. Even with Vlad angry though, Leila insists on pushing the subject of him not returning her love.  Vlad tries in his own words to explain his hesitation though.  You see, you don't want me to love you. You want the version you've made up. The knight, even though I'm the dragon and I always will be.  --Vlad to Leila, page 169 in ARC copy With Vlad walking away from her, Leila is determined to know everything about him so she can prove to love the real Vlad just as much. Using her powers, she enters the Weapon's Room that holds pieces of his past on display. With each touch, she sees horrors of Vlad's past. With her powers being on the fritz though, she overloads her body and Vlad finds her just as she collapse's. Before she passes out and goes into full arrest, she tells Vlad that she loves the real Vlad. After she recovers, we are treated with Chapter 29. Now let me point out that something MAJOR happens between Vlad and Leila, between her power surge collapse and this chapter. After that major event, author Jeaniene Frost gives the readers something that is so gloriously good, that it will be rated up there with Chapter 32 in her Night Huntress series. Loyal fans will know what I am referencing when I say Chapter 32. While it may not out rank Chapter 32, Vlad and Leila's Chapter 29 will tie pretty close with it. All I can say is be prepared for scorching, sexy, and combustible! Whew! Again, after this hot chapter, many things happen. The author doesn't hold out when she comes out swinging with surprises and plot twists. Some readers will cheer for some things, other things the readers will be shocked about. All I can say is that Vlad will always be Vlad even in tender and quiet moments. Just remember that he is feared for a reason, and the author makes sure to give very detailed imagery for you. This book has a darker and bloody side, so be prepared. While some things are resolved at the end of this book, there are still loose ends that will need to be addressed in the next book. All I can say is bring it on Ms. Frost!",
   "5 Wow stars Twice Tempted is the second book in the Night Prince series. If you haven't read the first book, then you shouldn't read my review because you should stop what you are doing and pick up Once Burned ASAP. I was curious to see how Twice Tempted would go. The book starts off where Once Burned left off. Leila leaves Vlad because Vlad couldn't admit he loved her.  Gah, the angst and the love and the passion. I couldn't get enough of it.  Leila is traveling back to the carnie life. All the romance and intense feelings between Leila and Vlad are still there. It's just that now, Leila is somewhere else, but that doesn't stop Vlad. Of course there are still the same obstacles to overcome, like someone always trying to kill or kidnap Leila and like I said before I couldn't get enough of this. What I love about this book is the fast pace, the action and the page turning love story. All the feels I had from book one is still there after reading Twice Tempted. Leila is strong as ever. Vlad is still ruthless but only has eyes for Leila and of course the relationship goes through A LOT in this one.  Overall, keep reading the series!                 Once Burned #1  AMAZON  |  REVIEW Twice Tempted #2  AMAZON   Bound by Flames #3  AMAZON Into the Fire #4  AMAZON",
   "January 2022 - So… This is exactly what it looks like 😅 Apparently this has become a favorite series of mine without my knowledge.  Oops.  Fourth reread is in. Let me just say that the writing for this series and this authors books in general is just so relaxing to read/listen to. Something about it just clicks for me.  ______________________ August 2021 - My third reread of this book is in!  There's something about this series and this author that just keeps me coming back for more! I'm still at that stage where I want to like Vlad but he's making it rather hard for me to justify his actions. I just love the world the author created and I can't wait for her to keep on adding books to the Night Huntress universe ♡ ______________________ Originally posted at:     The story was so engaging! This author's writing style has gotten better with every book she's written and it's no different for this series so far.  Leila is as determined and sassy as ever! I really enjoy her as a character. I love how she stands up to Vlad for things and situations she feels strongly about. I like how she's trying to communicate with Vlad by using her words and not emotional blackmail. Vlad is getting to the point where I may end up disliking him. He makes these huge life-changing decisions/assumptions and expects Leila to agree with them regardless of what she actually wants. He isn't open to changing his ways or toning them down. Sometimes it seems like it's either his way of she gets locked in a room until she agrees or escapes him. Deep down I have a problem with him because his actions just make me feel icky. The ending was a bombshell that I didn't remember anything about (considering this is the second time I'm reading this series!), so I was definitely surprised and intrigued. One thing I can't say about this author is that she doesn't know what she's doing when it comes to weaving a good action-packed story! The Audio Book: I really, really like this narrator! She's in my top 5 at this point in my audio book journey. All the characters sounded distinct enough that I didn't get lost in the dialogue. There were no strange noises in the background of the recording.",
   "This series is in the same world as the  Night Huntress  series. You can read the  Night Prince  series without reading the other, but I highly recommend reading  Night Huntress  first. Many previous characters come to visit Vlad and you can understand their relationships more if you have had the pleasure of reading the other first, but  Night Prince  can stand on its own.  Now, I read    Twice Tempted    when it first came out in 2013. I LOVED it! I devoured each book as they came out, but then the fourth and final book came and I never got around to reading it. When a series you love comes to an end it's hard to finish that last book, but now I'm going to, so I'm going back and listening to the series for the first time to refresh myself. ***** Twice Tempted  is book two in the  Night Prince  series by Jeaniene Frost. We continue where    Once Burned    left off.  Lelia and Vlad are having problems. She feels that Vlad doesn't want her anymore; because her powers are lost or maybe temporarily lost. No one knows! Vlad tries to show her he wants her, but the way he does that leads to a huge embarrassing moment and they break up.  What does she do? She stands her ground and when Vlad doesn't give her what she needs she leaves and returns to Marty and the circus, but things soon go bad when someone tries to kill her. From there we are on one wild and crazy ride where Lelia try's to figure out who wants her dead and in the process try to avoiding Vlad; which is an impossibility. The forces working against these two is a mystery throughout the story. It keeps things off-kilter and interesting.  We get a little cameo appearance of Cat. I love Cat and Bones.    Twice Tempted    doesn't disappoint. Theirs no shortage of emotional turmoil, action, suspense, mystery, surprises, and steam.  Narration:  Tavia Gilbert continues to do a spectacular job. I love her voices for all the characters; especially Vlad and the story and plot come to life. You feel for Lelia in this one. I highly recommend the audiobook for the Night Prince series.  Rated: 5 Stars    "],
  '_version_': 1748767601513725952},
 {'id': '33815',
  'author': ['Trenton Lee Stewart', 'Del Roy'],
  'book_format': 'Audiobook',
  'description': "Nine-year-old Nicholas Benedict has more problems than most children his age. Not only is he an orphan with an unfortunate nose, but he also has narcolepsy, a condition that gives him terrible nightmares and makes him fall asleep at the worst possible moments. ,Now he's being sent to a new orphanage, where he will encounter vicious bullies, selfish adults, strange circumstances - and a mystery that could change his life forever. Luckily, he does have one thing in his favor: He's a a genius.,On his quest to solve the mystery, Nicholas finds enemies around every corner, but also friends in unexpected places - and discovers along the way that the greatest puzzle of all is himself.",
  'genre': ['Mystery',
   'Fiction',
   'Young Adult',
   'Childrens',
   'Middle Grade',
   'Adventure',
   'Fantasy',
   'Realistic Fiction',
   'Juvenile',
   'Audiobook'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1331362619l/13152282.jpg',
  'isbn': '307968316',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13152282-the-extraordinary-education-of-nicholas-benedict',
  'page_count': '14',
  'rating': 4.37,
  'review_count': 1167,
  'title': 'The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict',
  'rating_count': 14116,
  'sensitivity': ['spiders'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'recommend',
   'fascinating',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'arc',
   'incredible',
   'complicated',
   'missing',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'catalyst',
   'dream',
   'gothic',
   'disappointing',
   'captured',
   'charming',
   'original',
   'capture',
   'entertaining',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'gush',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'famous',
   'smile',
   'delightful',
   'quirky',
   'powerful',
   'obsessed',
   'lacks',
   'modern',
   'eccentric',
   'waste',
   'best',
   'special',
   'sweet',
   'captivating',
   'witty',
   'subtle',
   'irritating',
   'perfection',
   'inspiring',
   'attention',
   'dull',
   'top',
   'remarkable',
   'classic',
   'enjoyable',
   'worthy',
   'worst',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'realistic',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'touching',
   'heart',
   'hooked',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'dark',
   'awkward',
   'beautiful',
   'drama',
   'exceptional',
   'cute',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'enjoying',
   'stupid',
   'rare',
   'bizarre',
   'beloved',
   'funny',
   'wholesome',
   'wonderful',
   'orphan',
   'interesting',
   'surprise',
   'different',
   'easy',
   'serve',
   'love',
   'magical',
   'wonderfully',
   'adore',
   'contemporary',
   'unexpected',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'surprise', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["    Perhaps even more enjoyable than the Mysterious Benedict Society; I really liked the  young  Nicholas Benedict and his adventures at a new orphanage. It almost felt like I was back at Hogwarts. There's something captivating about following a new kid at a big, old fashioned school that is part fascinating and part scary, part welcoming and part awe-inspiring. Add to that some down-to-earth friends, some plotting enemies, some ambiguous teachers and some mysterious predecessors (who've planted a treasure) and I'm under the spell. I really do like Nicholas. In this book he goes from being a good person to becoming an even better person (I cried by the end). I found it impressive that this change was inspired by seeing the striking goodness of a particular adult, and to me this seemed novel for a children's book. Nicholas also makes 'super intelligence' look like so much fun. You can't help but want to imitate him with his extraordinary memory, his astuteness in observing things and tuning in to detail, and his capacity for detecting what other people need. There is some realistic friendship development, particularly with one boy who sometimes lacks the courage to stand up for his friend for fear of drawing the attention of the baddies to himself. But once he faces his weakness he is able to overcome it, and the friendship becomes deeper than before. And the story conveys a profound appreciation for the treasure of books, especially with Nicholas' talent for reading a large one in 10 mins and memorising the entire thing! Don't I wish...  www.GoodReadingGuide.com",
   "A delightful, heartwarming, and spirited story. In  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict , a brilliant but lonely orphaned boy discovers an intriguing puzzle and ultimately finds friendship and purpose as he tries to solve it.  Nicholas Benedict is only nine years old, but he has many times more intelligence, curiosity, and resourcefulness than most adults ever attain. But even at such a young age, he's had a disappointing and difficult life. He's been passed from one orphanage to another, and life has only ever dealt him hard knocks, injustice, and misfortune. His brilliant mind and memory often get him into trouble, even though it also helps him find ways out of it. And people, as well as life, have never failed to let him down. He believes that people, especially adults, can't be trusted, and that relying on himself, and himself alone, is the only way to survive. So he remains independent and constantly on guard against a world that is out to get him. But despite this disillusionment and difficult life experience, young Nicholas retains an irrepressible, cheerful, wondering, observant, unfailingly optimistic, and lively spirit. He doesn't let hardship, or anything else, get him down or make him despair, even when life constantly conspires against him. And he continues to fight and wiggle his way out of each unfortunate situation he encounters.  But that spirit is hard to maintain, and he must fight for it. And when everything he's worked for and hoped in comes crashing down, his endurance and spirit are tested beyond what he's weathered in the past. *** I've been a massive a fan of  The Mysterious Benedict Society  from a young age, starting just after the first book was released. I have fond memories of my excitement when each successive book was released. These books were the first books I bought with my own money, and the first that were an automatic buy as soon as they were published.  I was a little older when the prequel,  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict , was published--a young teen instead of a middle-grader. But reading it for the first time was a magical experience. I think I understood the depth, the themes, and the characters in a more powerful way than I would have as a child--though I don't think it would be lost on a thoughtful child, so maybe I'd have appreciated it just as much. I loved this book just as much as the first  Mysterious Benedict Society  book--which is one of my top few favorite books of all time. I still love both books just as much as I did when I was a kid, and I appreciate the masterful writing, plot, character development, themes, and everything else even more than I used to.  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict  is very different from the main series. Unlike the  Mysterious Benedict Society  trilogy, prequel lacks the author's trademark hint of fantasy, futuristic, or dystopian elements in a setting that feels contemporary and modern. Instead,  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict  reads much like a gentle, classic historical fiction novel about a past decade, in the writing style, characters, setting, and events. But though quiet, thoughtful, and cheerful, Nicholas's story is engaging, fascinating, and entertaining. I've never met a fan of the  Mysterious Benedict Society  trilogy--child, teen or adult--who didn't enjoy the prequel just as much--or more!--than the others in the series. It's fascinating and wonderful to see an iconic character from the trilogy grow up as a young boy--and to see the influences and qualities that made him the great man he is as an adult. Nicholas and his story are delightful, sweet, and charming--and very, very touching, and bittersweet as well as joyful. There's an element of intrigue and slight mystery, which is so fun, and it keeps the plot moving steadily. The depth of emotion and theme are more powerful because of the understated, skilled writing. And the character development is amazing! I love watching NIcholas grow and discover the truth about himself and the world. His personality and character are so winning and fascinating that they make the book amazing. And each of the supporting characters is lifelike and well-developed, as well--even ones who only appear briefly. *** One scene of this book made me cry the first time I read it. It's rare for me to cry in books, and it was unheard-of for me back then. I only cry real tears if I'm deeply, deeply moved, and if it takes me totally by surprise. It helps if it reminds me of something heartbreaking in real life, personal or distant. But I don't cry when I'm expecting it.  Except that I did cry in the same chapter during this last reread! I knew it was coming. I've remembered all this time what I felt when I cried that first time, years ago. But it still moved me so much that I cried again.  Because that chapter broke my heart and healed it in the same moment, both times. It's a wonderful climax to a bittersweetly touching book. I love the scenes of Nicholas and his loneliness and introspection. And I love the scenes of him making friends for the first time, deep, true friendships. Those things touch me and move me, as does the part when he loses everything. But the chapter that moves me most, and made me cry, is one near the end, “The Kindness of Strangers.” The protagonist is disillusioned and world-weary at nine years old, and he trusts no one and only relies on himself. He believes the world is a cruel place in which no one will help someone they don't know. And then a chance encounter changes his life, restores his hope and ideals. It shows him that there are good, caring, and decent people in the world, and that he can be one too. That he can trust someone other than himself. That “there's some good in this world, and it's worth fighting for,” to quote  Lord of the Rings  in a cheesy way.  That's why this book made me cry years ago and again this month, and why it still continues to move me just as much several rereads later. There is so much more goodness in this book, but that chapter seems especially significant to me, even though it's different than the rest of the book, and removed from it.  *** It's so wonderful to read such a sweet, wholesome book that can be enjoyed equally well by all ages. It's a juvenile fiction novel, but it's mature and deep, so teens and adults can appreciate it just as much as middle-grade readers. I highly recommend  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict  to fans of historical fiction or of the main series. And I recommend  The Mysterious Benedict Society  to anyone who enjoys quality juvenile fiction with a slight hint of futuristic and fantasy elements. And really, to all people!! It's my favorite juvenile fiction novel by a recent author, which I do not say lightly--it's fabulous in every way, and I love this prequel just as much as the original.",
   "I distinctly remember being OBSESSED with the Mysterious Benedict Society series 9 years ago and harassing my school librarian for weeks about whether the library had received the third book yet. I never read this prequel, though, and I'm so glad I did this week!! I'd describe it as a mystery set in an edgier, less wand waving version of Hogwarts. 10/10 need to reread the whole series for childhood nostalgia and giggles",
   "I met Trenton Lee Stewart after a concert in central Arkansas several years ago. It was a funny experience because I had not read much of the Mysterious Benedict Society (if any of it) and I knew he was famous for it but couldn't think of anything to say to him. I wanted to smack my forehead afterward because it was silly to have a chance to rub shoulders with a literary celebrity but waste the opportunity by several moments of silence. Anyway. I read the MBS series and thought they were good. A little hard to get into sometimes, but my sons love them and have read them multiple times. But then they persuaded me to set aside my grownup fare and read THIS book, insisting it was Stewart's best yet. I read the first chapter and found that I couldn't put it down. It has a narrative pace that is much more compelling than the MBS books. Its characters are more real. Its plot has neatly executed intricacies that satisfy. Its message is uplifting and inspiring. I agree with my sons -- this is Trenton Lee Stewart's best work thus far! And now if I were to meet him again, I would have plenty to say to him, including to express my hope that it has been submitted to the Newbery committee. It is every bit as good as Louis Sachar's  Holes ; in fact I like it even more because of its power to make me want to be better, kinder -- to use my gifts to help those I care about, like Nicholas Benedict.",
   "I now completely understand the rave about this series. Completely! Right now I'm writing this review rubbing my grainy eyes after staying up quite beyond my bedtime to finish this book—it's been a LONG time since I've been so “lost in a book” that I just had to finish it before going to sleep.   I'm not sure where to even begin in reviewing this book. Nicholas's character is just perfectly written. Little things I enjoyed about his character were the way his “big words” flowed so naturally into his speech, his quiet thoughtfulness, his occasional deadpan humor that he uses with his friends and catches them off guard—all those things and yet they wouldn't have made me completely respect him if the author hadn't done yet another incredible ending which seamlessly bridged Nicholas's character from his survival sort of mindset as an orphan in this novel to the other-centered and caring man that he is in  The Mysterious Benedict Society .  The writing itself was a huge breath of fresh air for a book lover like myself. The descriptive metaphors used, how the author quietly through Nicholas's observant and cheerful eyes creates character sketches that are so truth-revealing and human. And at times just the author's ability to capture a moment of raw emotion from one of his characters—honestly, there were times while I was reading this book that I caught my breath or set down the book to just take it in.  Maybe the plot was simpler than  The Mysterious Benedict Society , but I was enjoying the book too much to really care. All the elements I enjoyed from the first book were beautifully duplicated in this one without the more eerie elements that held me back from fully loving the first.  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict —5 stars and great anticipation for a re-read later this year",
   "I listened to this book while on a road trip and it worked pretty well, although it was not what I expected. It kind of felt like I was listening to a book from the era of The Phantom Tollbooth, although this book is not nearly as old. This book was published after the third book in this series as a prequel focused on the childhood of Nicholas Benedict and how he came to be the head of the Mysterious Benedict Society. However, I have not read any of the books, so I didn't know who Nicholas Benedict was. This book would qualify as a mystery, but not in the way I think of with crime novels. It's not so much about solving a crime as it is uncovering what happened in the past and it involves a treasure hunt as Nicholas tries to survive his place as a new orphan, the target of bullies (although his wit gets him through it), and being shunned by everyone else because they're too afraid of the bullies to become friends with him. Even though it was not what I was expecting, I still enjoyed this book and it makes me intrigued enough to read the rest of the books, although I imagine Nicholas Benedict will be an adult and it will be other kids who will be at the center of the story. What I like about these stories is how interesting the kids are and that they're all a bit quirky and think outside the box. I liked to think I would have been friends with such kids. The other thing is that they're all orphans and they are survivors. I look forward to the rest of the series.",
   "I don't know what it is about these Benedict books, but they make me feel like a kid again more than any other children's books I've read as an adult. I get wrapped up in them the same way I used to with my favorites back in elementary school. It's a really nice place to visit.  That said, as much as I enjoyed learning Nicholas Benedict's early history, this book flagged so much in the middle third that I almost gave it up. I skimmed a lot because I didn't feel the clues were building fast enough towards a resolution - I needed a little less exposition, a little more action. I did like where the story ended up, however predictably, and I felt Nicholas's own self-revelations were as significant as the solution to the mystery. He was kind of an irritating, smug little bastard for a lot of the book, and I appreciated his ability to reflect upon that with satisfying conclusions.  While Nicholas's insane genius can be alienating and occasionally comes off as a mere plot contrivance (really? You picked up sign language in two seconds? Okay), I do like him as a model for how to stand up to bullies and use your nerderific powers for good. I'm sure it's encouraging to kids who get picked on for being different or  too  smart, and there's some practical advice in there as well.  Will we get to meet Nicholas as a teenager next? Now that, I'd like to see. ",
   "The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict is indeed a most extraordinary book that I loved from the beginning and one that I will definitely read again. It's a very enjoyable, fun, easy to follow piece of literature that readers young and old will love. This wonderful story has kept me up into late hours of the night, and early hours of morning, urging me to keep on turning the pages because I didn't want to put it down.  All the characters felt real and present, my favourite definitely being Nicholas; the nine-year old orphaned genius boy with narcolepsy who can read a book in five minutes, fix pretty much anything, and get startled to sleep. I've never read a book before with someone like him in it, and I can't wait to read The Mysterious Benedict Society.  I loved how everything turned out in the end and it was overall very satisfying, from the writing style, to the plot, and to the separate life and development of each character. I recommend this book to anybody and everybody.  4.5 stars",
   "Looking to find a new bed time author for my 11yo son, I came across this book and we devoured it. I am not sure who enjoyed out the most. Him listening to me or me reading it aloud. It is a wonderfully written book that gives a narrator duo much to work with.  Yes, it is a bit wordy and could be 25% shorter, but hey! When you are reading to your children what's the point in finishing quickly and being asked to re-read something you've read a hundred times before? Selby or Dr Zeus anyone? Great story and had my boy predicting out loud what he say as fore shadowing, which I was impressed with. ",
   '4.5 stars This was my first time to read any of the Mysterious Benedict Society books and I had such a good time getting to know young Nicholas Benedict and his friends. Of course I particularly enjoyed how quickly he could devour and remember books and how much a facet of his character that is.  Highly recommended for middle grades and up: even adults!',
   "Loved it, like all of the books in the series. I am just sad that there aren't any more Benedict adventures left!",
   "Re-Read April '21 - I have now hit the limit of procrastinating genetics. I remember this one being my favorite - still absolutely beloved, but the excitement has slightly worn off. Wish I could come back to these books fresh and unspoiled again!  Original Review: I adored this, completely unsurprisingly, since this whole series has captured my heart. (I scored a 4-book hardcover set for $12, so no more forced borrowings. ;) Oh, and I also knew precisely what the treasure was on p. 154 (which also happens to be the first quote from Mr. Rothschild's diary) and knew precisely what happened to John on p. 370 (which also happens to be the first mention that anything  has  happened), so I think I'm starting to pick up even faster on TLS' plot devices - not that that makes anything less fun!",
   'I cannot wait to read this book! I LOVE The Mysterious Benedict Society, and was SOOOO psyched when I learned that a new book was coming out. UPDATE: Simply put, I LOVED THIS BOOK.',
   "OH MY GOD!  This book was exactly as I wanted it to be. I actually liked it better than I thought I would! Favorite characters: Nicholas and his two friends. I mean, the others were all mean and evil! I mean, usually I like villains, but this one was not one of my favorite characters! AND THE END WAS AMAZEBALLS! Oh my god, it was better than I would have thought! And the treasure was perfect. I am not going to tell you what and where it was, because that would be a spoiler, but to me it was perfect. And the plot, a orphan boy who when he reads he reads books in minutes and then remembers everything he reads? I MEAN, WHO WOULD NOT LOVE THAT!!?? That would be awesome. And his two friends were also great.  OK, and that concludes my review of 'The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict'. I would recommend this book to humans ages 10 and up. It was a little long, but me being a speed reader I read it in about two hours straight!",
   'What an incredible journey that was. I am very glad to have made my way to Rothschild End. I hope that my further adventures with Nicholas, John and Violet will be just as intriguing and wonderful. This is a wonderful introduction into the series and a must read for anyone who is currently reading or has finished the series.  Onward to the next one!! ',
   "I'd like to preface this review by saying that my opinion of this book has changed drastically. My initial impression of it five years ago was colored heavily by Stewart's flagship series, which I had wanted to see more of, and so I was not willing to appreciate the different and altogether refreshing experience that  Extraordinary Education  was offering. Now that I've put to rest my rose-tinted adoration for TMBS, I've discovered that Stewart succeeded in this prequel where I once thought he'd failed. For posterity's sake, you can still read my original off-the-rails review  here . I'm not proud of it, but I am proud of how I've changed the way I approach and review new books.  And now, onto the new review. *** If I were to try and describe Trenton Lee Stewart's books to you, I'd say they are novels that shift between a sea of chaos and a sea of calm. There are eye-catching hues of madness and beauty within his children's stories, reminiscent of tales such as  Alice in Wonderland ,  Peppermints in the Parlor , and  A Series of Unfortunate Events . They are rife with characters who are brimming with life and lunacy, wit and willpower. And then, on the flip-side, we have Stewart's adult fare such as  Flood Summer , which features a darker realism that is at once momentous, nostalgic, and phantasmagorical; you try to reach out and grasp the dreamy feeling, but you might as well be trying to hold a moonbeam in your hand.  And so, between these two storytelling hemispheres lies  Extraordinary Education  (EE): a marvelous story chock-full of twists and turns, crushing moments, joyous moments, absurd and lovable characters, and of course, a good ol' fashioned mystery. I would even go so far as to say there are touches of mannerpunk and a Dickensian cruelty within the novel, which really ticks the boxes for me. I don't know how he does it, but Stewart has written some of the most engaging and impactful stories I've ever read. They are touching, well-written, inspirational, and bursting with liveliness. You get an authentic sense that Stewart still understands what it's like to be young, and his respect for you, the reader, allows him to write stories that not only appeal greatly to kids, but also tap into that inner child within adults; that youthful self of never-ending summers and grand adventures. From the outset, EE's story had me hooked. Stewart transitions seamlessly from scene to scene, conflict to conflict, revealing just enough information to tease the imagination and provide some excellent set-ups for the novel's twists. The Manor, a relic of a thing, is home to a numerous amount of weird goings-on, all of which serve to build an eerie tone in relation to both the characters and the mystery at hand. In comparison to the main TMBS story, EE's is a more subdued, subtle, and personal tale, but no less powerful. In fact, I find it to be even more powerful because of the deep look we're given into part of Nicholas Benedict's past. And if you're paying attention enough to details, you can see how certain things in the future of the series' timeline are getting set into motion. Certain matters that are staples of Stewart's novels—such as misery, loneliness, triumph, and acceptance—are once again brought to the fore and explored with meticulous care. Stewart holds nothing back here when it comes to meaningful, heart-tugging moments. So moved was I during certain scenes that I just had to lean back in my chair and stare, awestruck, at the ceiling, a flood of memories and compassion for the characters filling my head. From writer to reader, the passion was passed on. I shook my head in disbelief, pleased to know that a writer such as Stewart was able to have such an effect on me. Now, a good Stewart novel is never without it's excellent cast of characters, and EE has a veritable trove of characters both dim and sharp, reserved and wild, mirthless and witty. Though Stewart's novels are often dark, there are always characters who dare to battle this darkness, bringing about any positive change they can. It is a conflict older than time, and yet here in EE it feels practically new—it is a joy to read about. Nicholas Benedict himself is an endlessly prodigious but flawed character, always innovating and circumventing; always acting as a catalyst wherever he goes, and it is his presence that allows this novel to shine as it does. I've mentioned in my review of  TMBS #1  that Stewart is often compared to Lemony Snicket, but again, Stewart's characters and his broader scope of vision allow him to surpass Snicket in terms of characters' growth and complexity. Anybody who sees Reynie Muldoon or Nicholas Benedict as a copy of Klaus Baudelaire is simply not looking hard enough. The supporting cast of EE complements Nicholas, as well. Without them, the book would become hollow, for every presence has weight within the story. Indeed, I cared for the others as much as I did Nicholas, their symbiosis and discord affecting my equilibrium in ways that are hard to evoke with words. I'm not sure why I was so put off by the pacing during my first read of EE (probably due to my extreme disappointment back then), but now, I don't find it to be a problem at all. With every new sentence comes a new development, and there is never any wasted space. Here and there, Stewart will linger, as he is prone to do, but these lingering parts are still enjoyable to read, contributing to character development and the overall  living  setting of the novel. The eccentric Manor that Stewart puts his characters into never cease to delight me; its distinct tone, timelessness, and frightening implications always manage to deepen my interest in the world and characters as events transpire. Too often, authors don't realize the importance of developing their world in the same way they would one of their characters, thus leading to settings that are simply the backdrop for whatever story they want to tell, failing to reflect the characters that are present within them. Stewart, on the other hand, takes better care of his settings, a  Wonderland  sort of care, and here in EE he draws upon old fantasy tales and Gothic stories for EE's success. Every chapter flows into the next—the zaniness and laughter to be had within each one facilitating this streamlined experience. Rarely do I find a book that I wish wouldn't end, but alas,  Extraordinary Education  had to come to a close. It pains me to say that I don't know if we'll ever get something quite like this from Stewart ever again. I wish I could write a story like this: a story so complete, so heartwarming and humorous, yet also gloomy and Gothic, and overall, just a splendid example of modern literature. This may not be what die-hard fans of  The Mysterious Benedict Society  are looking for, but truly,  Extraordinary Education  breaks the series' mold with aplomb, delivering a far more enriching and powerful narrative despite its isolated nature. And within the exceptional experience, you will yet find its treasure. You need only search for it.",
   "I adore this book. I am ecstatic about the fact that this book exists and I came to know about it.  I loved it, cried with it and in the end I just couldn't stop thinking about it and its characters. Especially its characters!!! They will always be close to my heart.  Summary  This book is is prequel to The Mysterious Benedict Society series. Here we are introduced to, a nine year old boy Nicholas Benedict when he is being transferred from one orphanage to another. He is not sure whether to be happy or sad, but he has decided that he will keep his situation a secret. Well, not the sleeping situation, he can't hide that, you see, he suffers from narcolepsy, a condition that makes him sleep at worst possible situation and also gives him nightmares, but the other situation which includes him being smarter than the most adults and his photographic memory, will not be seen by others.  As Nicholas expected, this orphanage too has its bullies and worst special circumstances to compensate his narcolepsy making him a primary target of those bullies but the things he did not expect was the orphanage to have a mystery and him to find friends as he sets to solve the mystery.  Writing : I loved the storytelling tone and the pacing of this book. It is easy to read and get absorbed in the world which writer is creating Characters : I became a fan of the author's character descriptions as I got attached to all the main characters. The author  Trenton Lee Stewart  has done a wonderful job in writing nine year old and twelve/ ten year old kids which made you feel for them and with them. Nick's character arc is the most beautiful description I have had the chance to read till this moment of my life. Twists and Ending : I liked the twists done here and was able to predict one. I can't gush enough about the ending, I loved it!!! I loved the ending. I never imagined the author to go where he went with this story. Recommend  : I would like to recommend this book to all the middle grade readers who are looking for something unique and mysterious to read with some contemporary moments.",
   "Nicholas Benedict is now at the VERY VERY top of my list when it comes to fictional children. Insanely clever but refreshingly sincere and self-aware and just lovable.  A worthy prequel to The Mysterious Benedict Society. In that book, he is the figure on the edge of the plot who has inspired utter devotion from his small but select group of friends. In this book he is a 9-year-old orphan in search of a purpose. Reading this makes me want to revisit passages in The Mysterious Benedict Society because now I really appreciate him even more 😍 The only thing is... It's a really really long book. A bit too long in my opinion. Hence 4 stars. But excellent reading.",
   " I love that Trenton Lee Stewart writes smart, complicated kid's books, but it's getting awkward to have to sneak onto the children's library floor each time he releases a new Benedict Society book. Extraordinary Education was so good, though, that it was totally worth the skeptical looks the librarians gave me when I clomped through reading time in my Doc Martens. This is the prequel to The Mysterious Benedict Society trilogy, which I tore through last summer. Stewart reinvigorates a fairly standard children's mystery plot with realistic characters, awesome wordplay and really, really solid writing.  I was a little disappointed that Carson Ellis didn't do the illustrations this round, because her drawings added one more layer of depth to the other books in this series. Sudyka does a fine job-- people unfamiliar with Ellis' work might not even notice the shift-- but every time I came to a new chapter illustration I felt a pang akin to homesickness. Guess I'll have to move on to Wildwood to get my Ellis fix. ",
   "the adventure ends.  I started reading this out loud on a summer's night drive home from the Iowa countryside. I cried a few days later when Levi asked if I'd read any more without him. no. I wanted to read it together.  many nights laying in bed, or sitting on the couch, a few sunny evenings on the bench in the yard, and many a drive—Levi insisting that I read because he's “not as good” at it, I read maybe a third of the book by autumn?  and then driving made me sick, and existing made me sick, and I couldn't catch my breath to read out loud for more than three sentences at a time. so Levi read to me.  and we really drew it out.  and I might've liked the story more if I'd read it alone and in a space of time closer to what the book itself covers (like 6 weeks?).  and I do appreciate the story, it's sweet.  but I appreciate the time with Levi more, and the fact that this book will always remind me of him, and his willingness to read to me, and for me.",
   "It's been a while since I had that,  I want to read!!  feeling and then happily had an adventure doing so.",
   'This was such a good prequel to the series. In a way, it felt odd because Nicholas was the only character who it the same from the series, but it had the same feel as the other books. After reading this, I felt like I understood Mr. Benedict so much better and why he related so well to the other characters. I loved seeing him as a kid, and his trademark ingenuity. The way he got out of tight spots was amazing.  I love this series, and I was so glad to read most of it along side my dear friend Kate. It made it so much better.',
   " The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict  makes an excellent example of creativity and ingenuity in an author's writing style.  This book is actually the prequel to the  Mysterious Benedict Society  trilogy. You really must read the trilogy first, in order to catch all the little details hidden in the prequel. While we've so enjoyed the adventures and quests of Reynie, Kate, Sticky and Constance who form the Society --- and all of whom are very bright children that Mr. Benedict cultivates --- we finally get the chance to meet the boy himself, young Nicholas Benedict. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Shall I tell you what I'm thinking, Mrs. Ferrier?   Heavens no, Nicholas! That would take hours and we have only moments.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - With the prequel in hand, we can learn about Mr. Benedict's childhood --- about how he came to be the old man with narcolepsy, who uses a wheelchair, wears green plaid, and knows ever-so-many things. The entire back-story is finally revealed in a truly  extraordinary  way. Young Nicholas is a nine-year-old boy with a mind that works overtime. Sometimes it's a great asset, and sometimes he finds himself in trouble because of it. He's always thinking, reading, and trying to figure out the next puzzle of life. Starting over at yet another orphanage is always hard, but that's exactly where he's going... Rothschild's End, the place where he will find friendship, enemies with the Spiders, and an unexpected treasure hunt. All great elements for a good story to be told. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  He had plotted any number of different strategies (plotting strategies was the sort of thing Nicholas did when other children were playing jacks or Old Maid)...  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I simple adore this book. It appealed to me on so many levels... the charm of a long-ago childhood, the love of libraries and books, the dreary orphanage holding so much potential within its walls, the wit found in tricky puzzles and clues, and the one boy who sees everything differently and can change it all. Complete with a few surprise twists now and then, to make sure you're awake. By the time I arrived at the last chapter, I felt so sad that I would have to finish it and part company with the characters within its pages. It's a book to laugh and cry over.  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict  is a book to cherish. This is the way an author writes a book that all ages can enjoy.",
   "Words can't explain how much this book disappointed me.  Trenton Lee Stewart. THE Trenton Lee Stewart. He wrote this book? Where's the Trenton I idolized who wrote The Mysterious Benedict Society Trilogy? Where is that brilliant author who opened my eyes to the world of reading?  The book went from boring to boring-er. The setting was isolated in their own little place. Trenton forgot to use his imagination. Halfway through the book, the story went on and on and on and on about a stupid treasure. They put all their effort on a treasure they were not even sure existed. Like whaaaaaat? And then Trenton tried fitting all the exciting parts at the end of the book. And by 'exciting' I mean 'not THAT boring.' There were REALLY REALLY REALLY insignificant characters in the book. The book would've flowed without them, but apparently, Trenton's creative juices weren't working that time. I don't know how he connected this story to The Mysterious Benedict Society, but he did. The book ended abruptly, as if Trenton suddenly got exhausted of writing and decided to stop the book right then and there. WELL, IF HE JUST CUT OUT THOSE REDUNDANT MEETUPS WITH JOHN AND VIOLET, THERE WOULD'VE BEEN LESS WASTED PAGES.  I STILL HAVE SO MANY RANTS ABOUT THIS BOOK BUT I CAN'T SEEM TO EXPRESS THEM IN WORDS. I AM REALLY SORRY FOR THIS VERY INFORMAL REVIEW BUT PLEASE EXCUSE ME, I'M TOO DISAPPOINTED IN HIM. I'm sorry to all the fans of this book, but sad to say, this is a mere shadow of what Trenton could do. I'm so disappointed right now, I won't even try finishing this sente-",
   "Star Rating: 4.5 stars Plot: It's about the life of young Mr. Benedict.  We get to see how he handles being an outcast, what he does when terrible bullies make fun of him and threaten physical harm, and what he does when he finds out about a missing treasure that's somewhere in the orphanage.  Characters: Nicholas: Awe! He's so cute! And amazingly smart, and a very dad reader. I wish I could read that fast. And a note about the other books in the series, I loved to see how all of the children (Reynie, Sticky, Kate, and Constance) all have some of the same characters he has. Nicholas is like all four of them rolled into one.  John: I loved him, and how kind he was to Nicholas. I wish the Spiders would just leave him alone. But he seemed under appreciated. I wish Nicholas would have thanked him more for all the sacrifices he had to make.  Violet: She's so kind! Willing to do just about anything to help Nick. Even give up her dream. The world needs more people like her.  Opinion: I loved it! I really liked how much we get to hear about Mr. Benedict, and I think it helps to understand his character more in the other books.  I did miss Reynie, Sticky, Constance, and Kate though.  Recommendation: 11 and up maybe? I think it would go over younger kids' heads. ",
   'Having read the Mysterious Benedict Society, I always wanted to know the background of Nicholas Benedict, the founder of the society. This book gives all that and more. Nicholas is nine and has been moving from orphanage to orphanage for years. When his guardian drops him off at the new orphanage, she warns him to be good. The problem is not that Nicholas cannot obey, but that his conditions make him easy pickings for teasing. He has narcolepsy and falls asleep at random times. He also falls asleep any time he feels extreme emotions. Nicholas also has a photographic memory and can speed read.  This is a great addition to the series and I love that this is where Stewart went after finishing the last book (so far) in the series. Getting some background on Nicholas provides an intriguing look at the boy who became the man.',
   "Storms, this book was good. It wasn't very realistic, but I loved the plot and the setting and how the characters interacted.  (And Violet's cool.)",
   'My favorite of the serie',
   "I know of no other writer like Trenton Lee Stewart. Stewart has a remarkable sense of wit, and there's never a situation he's incapable of drawing a vein of humor from. And yet his stories can be sad, sad in an aching, nostalgic, resigned way. His writing is able to tap into your childhood fantasies and display them, intact, in words, words so precisely chosen that they startle you with their vividness and perfect imagery. Above all else, he's a storyteller, and his warm, optimistic personality seeps through in his writing.  Stewart is not a perfect writer, the final Mysterious Benedict Society book is badly paced, and  The Secret Keepers  had a number of unfortunate flaws, but this,  The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict , this is is Stewart firing on all cylinders, and it is a marvelous thing to behold. I try sometimes to articulate what I've found in Stewart's writing that is so touching, so original, so unlike any other fiction out there. But I inevitably come up short: Stewart is himself. His stories are profoundly eccentric, and eccentrically profound. The characters are almost caricatures sometimes, and their names hint to that, Ledroptha Curtain, Mr. Column, Constance Contraire. But, beneath the facade of quirkiness, all of his characters are deeply human, and flawed, and complex, and infused with just a little touch of the bizarre. Stewart can write humor so uproarious you have to stop reading to wipe your eyes, action so exciting you feel as if you are seeing it play out before your very eyes, and emotions so raw and touching you dare not speak lest you break the bubble of perfection. Without spoiling the story, I will say there is a chapter near the end of this book so immaculately constructed, so beautifully cathartic, so perfectly written I read it over and over again, goosebumps running down my back each time. If there's one tangible quality that sets Stewart's writing apart, it might simply be how he writes relationships. His characters are rarely old enough for the tumultuous drama of romance, rather, they forge friendships, exceptionally honest, strong friendships. Whereas other authors constantly punish their characters with betrayal after betrayal, cruelty after cruelty, Stewart lets them see the kindness and beauty of the real world. He lets them dream. He lets them hope. He lets them smile. The book moves slowly, for sure, but that only makes it better. Each chapter is a boatload of riches, psychologically complex characters that, at first glance, seem to be nothing but caricatures, but reveal depths beneath, razor sharp wit, gentle humor, profound melancholy, I could go on forever. I guess all I can say is that this book is as close to perfection as possible. Thinking back on it, I can think of only one dull section, and even that is more interesting than nearly all children's literature combined. If you're looking for an author who doesn't talk down, who has a strong sense of atmosphere, and who is a master at evoking any emotion he pleases...look no further.",
   'This book was really good! I takes place before the other books when Nicholas Benedict is a child. In the beginning of the book, he is just moving to a new orphanage. Once there, he has to face his many problems. His strange sleeping condition (he constantly will suddenly fall asleep), the spiders (a group of bullies), and the strange mystery surrounding the Rothschild manor. However, he is not alone. He is almost instant friends with John Cole, an older boy. Nicholas soon finds himself in the middle of a huge mystery that will change his life forever. It is a great book that I think many people would enjoy!'],
  '_version_': 1748767602304352256},
 {'id': '33819',
  'author': 'Alix Ohlin',
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "When Grace, an exceedingly competent and devoted therapist in Montreal, stumbles across a man who has just failed to hang himself, her instinct to help kicks in immediately. Before long, however, she realizes that her feelings for this charismatic, extremely guarded stranger are far from straightforward. In the meantime, her troubled teenage patient, Annie, runs away from home and soon will reinvent herself in New York as an aspiring and ruthless actress, as unencumbered as humanly possible by any personal attachments. ,And Mitch, Grace's ex-husband, who is a therapist as well, leaves the woman he's desperately in love with to attend to a struggling native community in the bleak Arctic. We follow these four compelling, complex characters from Montreal and New York to Hollywood and Rwanda, each of them with a consciousness that is utterly distinct and urgently convincing. ,With razor-sharp emotional intelligence, ,Inside, poignantly explores the many dangers as well as the imperative of making ourselves available to—and responsible for—those dearest to us.",
  'genre': ['Fiction',
   'Cultural',
   'Canada',
   'Contemporary',
   'Literary Fiction',
   'Health',
   'Mental Health',
   'Drama',
   'Book Club',
   'Psychology',
   'Short Stories',
   'Adult Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1333576678l/13152420.jpg',
  'isbn': '307596923',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13152420-inside',
  'page_count': '258',
  'rating': 3.48,
  'review_count': 416,
  'title': 'Inside',
  'rating_count': 3648,
  'sensitivity': ['injury',
   'divorce',
   'rape',
   'cancer',
   'suicide',
   'abortion',
   'murder',
   'miscarriage',
   'drugs',
   'bones',
   'death',
   'genocide',
   'blood',
   'trauma'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['exceptional',
   'unique',
   'struggle',
   'boring',
   'complex',
   'period',
   'flawed',
   'predictable',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'rich',
   'horrific',
   'recommend',
   'brilliant',
   'fascinating',
   'disturbed',
   'delightful',
   'rare',
   'poor',
   'compelling',
   'enjoyable',
   'favorite',
   'funny',
   'mediocre',
   'relate',
   'worthy',
   'obsessed',
   'wonderful',
   'disastrous',
   'worse',
   'worst',
   'cliche',
   'controversial',
   'interesting',
   'enjoyed',
   'missing',
   'sad',
   'indifferent',
   'best',
   'great',
   'pleasant',
   'surprise',
   'solid',
   'different',
   'heart',
   'dumb',
   'special',
   'spite',
   'emotional',
   'damaged',
   'hype',
   'struggling',
   'easy',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'love',
   'hopeful',
   'perfect',
   'sweet',
   'captivating',
   'magnificent',
   'tired',
   'mess',
   'worthless',
   'useless',
   'beautiful',
   'groundbreaking',
   'original',
   'captivated',
   'suffer',
   'unexpected',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'anger', 'disgust', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["I really wanted to give this 3 stars, but it kept getting less and less interesting. And then, coming to the end, all I could think was,  that's it?  ",
   "Don't bother. I pretty much bought this book for its cover. Dumb move. I was intrigued at first, but in the end I won't remember what this was about for long. This author is too young for me. Trite. Contrived prose written in the third person TELLING about all these people with superficial concerns whose lives intertwine - kinda - therapists (of course), people who go to the North and Africa to work so they can get hit with tragedies that are ultimately all about them, people who get pregnant, divorced, depressed, commit suicide . . . Geez - Phrases like  So began a period of sleeping around , descriptions of older people as 'ample' and younger ones as 'pretty'. It SO tiresomely 'young city middle class'. I have no idea why it was nominated for a prize. Boring. Awful. ",
   "This book has been shortlisted for the Giller Prize and the Rogers Writers' Trust Fiction Prize. There are three interconnected story strands: that of Grace, a well-meaning but rather inept therapist in Montreal; that of Annie, a young client of Grace's who yearns to be an actress; and that of Mitch, Grace's ex-husband who is also a therapist. There is not a linear plot: chapters move among the various characters and cover about a decade, although not chronologically. I had difficulty keeping track of the characters, especially when a character might not be encountered for several chapters and then might be found in an earlier time period. I think I should have made notes to help me remember a character and his/her circumstances when he/she was next encountered. Admittedly, this may be more a factor of my middle age rather than a failing of the author. All of the characters are deeply flawed. They all try to understand others, to get “inside” their heads, because, as Grace notes, “There is a difference between the facts of a person and the truth of him.” They all allow others “inside” their lives and try to help them. Some are motivated to travel far from home, to Rwanda and Nunavut, to help others. However, Grace, Annie and Mitch are selfish and rather pathetic, so it is not difficult to predict that their attempts to help will not always meet with success. Grace realizes that “your actions radiated out to change not just your own life, but those of the people around you.” Sometimes everyone suffers because of the efforts of someone trying to be helpful. What the characters often seem to lack is self-knowledge; they don't always spend sufficient time getting “inside” their own heads to examine their motivations. The reader is taken into the hearts and minds of Grace, Annie, and Mitch, but the three of them frequently are not fully aware of their own feelings and thinking processes. Of course, that's what makes them totally human characters. This is a good book, but I'm not convinced that it is worthy of the prizes for which it has been nominated. Please check out my reader's blog ( http://schatjesshelves.blogspot.ca/ ) and follow me on Twitter (@DCYakabuski).",
   " Inside  is another of four novels nominated for Canada's major fiction award, the 2012 Giller Prize.  419  which I reviewed recently is very much a plot-driven book, while  Ru  which I have also reviewed is a memoir in novel form that is almost a lyrical poem in its magnificent language and interwoven, layered style. In contrast to both these books,  Inside  is much more driven by the depth and self-analysis of its characters. There is perhaps an over-arching theme -- best stated in a perspective from Mitch, the self-perceived failure who flails his way through the novel's dozen years:  Witnessing the pain of others,  he feels,  is the very least you can do in this world. It's how you know that when your own turn comes, someone will be there with you.  But helping others by doing this is a perilous course. Grace, who cannot stop herself from trying to save Tug, the man she inadvertently saves from his suicide attempt, sees her career as a therapist shattered by the shocks this relationship brings to her life. Anne, the egotistical actress who looks ready to break into Hollywood stardom, helps a homeless runaway girl who ends up undercutting Anne's image and squeezing away her income. And Mitch, drawn to help an autistic child, finds his emotions broken by mistakes into which he is drawn. Yet even this peril may not be what really counts, for all those who suffer for their efforts to do good, nevertheless find forms of reconciliation that also affect them. The maturing and growth of character traced throughout this excellent novel help explain how such changes can and do happen.  Alix Ohlin has been criticized, in a vicious NY Times review, for her choice of language -- too much use of  weird  was one part of the charge. So I was sensitive to Ohlin's writing style -- and found the images and metaphors this author uses to be fresh and sharp throughout her book. But what matters most about this book is the depth of character shaped and probed, ranging across genders and generations, with rare sensitivity and insight. This is an excellent novel. Unlike  419  none of the circumstances set out ring other than absolutely authentic. And the writing is very good. That's why this book has been nominated not just for the Giller, but also for one of the other Canadian fiction prizes for this year. A footnote: in tribute to her grade two teacher, who was a creative inspiration to Ohlin, the author has named several characters after  Grace Tugwell  of Montreal. Grace, who died recently, was one of the closest friends of my wife's sister. She was not only a fine teacher, but a wonderful artist.",
   "Can any of us really save another person? Or is each of us solely responsible for his or her own life? That's the question lurking behind Alix Ohlin's astute novel, which follows three separate characters: Grace, a therapist who's consulting with a disturbed teenage girl; Mitch, also a therapist, who moves all the way to the Arctic trying to rescue a young Inuit who's lost his whole family; and Anne, a struggling actress, who lets a pregnant runaway move into her apartment—and take over. Ohlin is a master short-story writer (see Signs and Wonders), and the early chapters of the book may feel like discrete tales. Very soon, though, you'll see how they're all intertwined, not just in terms of the characters' shared pasts in Montreal but also in the struggle with self-isolation.  There is a difference between the facts of the person and the truth of him,  Grace says, trying to connect with her lover, a depressed aid worker who's just attempted suicide. Like Mitch and Anne, she can't quite reveal herself to others, presenting one version of herself at home and another during counseling sessions. At times, she even declares,  People do whatever they want, no matter what we say.  A surprise car accident, however, forces her to do what she most fears—let someone else save her. Read more:  http://www.oprah.com/blogs/index.html...",
   "I groaned when my book club chose to read this. The description on the dust jacket made the book sound trite and banal. But the dust jacket also featured a number of quotes from glowing reviews, so I thought maybe it's not so bad after all. Having now forced myself to get through it, I can report that it's worse than I'd imagined. It's essentially a composite story filled with predictable cardboard characters with soap operatic dramas: the lonely only child who just wants to fix everyone else; the self obsessed shrink; the damaged rich girl who goes to Hollywood and then throws it all away because she thinks she's worth nothing; the former aid worker who's traumatized by going to Rwanda - which, BTW, is shockingly racist/colonialist in its depiction of African people (they like hockey - they must be 'civilized') and in its very making of the Rwandan genocide all about one white guy from Montreal. And don't even get me started on the stereotypical portrayal of the Inuit in the book ... The writing is mediocre at best, and the stories interlock clumsily. There are more than a few significant unresolved plot elements at the end of the novel, which also manages to feature a jaw droppingly inane cliche. William Giraldi's controversial NYT's review, that eviscerated the novel, sums up the problems with the plotting quite succinctly:  By book's end you will have counted one rape, one attempted rape, one impromptu marriage proposal, one death by cancer, one attempted suicide, three successful suicides, two car crashes in a 10-page span, four unwanted or unexpected pregnancies for three different women and a miscarriage for a fourth — all of which speak to Ohlin's narrative technique: when in doubt, impregnate or kill.  And, perhaps because I'm not Canadian (although I live here), I think blunt critique can be warranted - and in this case totally is. Maybe I'm just not deep enough for this novel. Maybe I just don't feel my way into how we're all linked emotionally, and how we get, you know, 'inside' other people's lives. But to me, ultimately, I think the worst thing about this novel is that is presents a sense of connection that is individualized with communities presented either as non-existent or dysfunctional. It speaks from a neo-liberal perspective that assumes that what we all want it to be left alone, and when we don't want that, we simply want one lover or one child or one friend to make us complete, when I believe what will make us complete is when we stop isolating ourselves so that the idea that we are inside many other people's lives all the time isn't presented as groundbreaking, but rather just as how things are. ",
   "There is no easing into Alix Ohlin's latest novel, Inside. In one chilling, breathless moment, Grace comes upon an unconscious man off the side of the trail down which she's skiing on a mountain in Montreal. A fallen skier? An unplanned detour? Unexpected injury? No, it's none of these. It becomes apparent quite quickly that John “Tug” Tugwell has just attempted suicide, and Grace is the first to come across the scene. Saving a man's life, however, is not enough when you're a therapist. Grace is compelled to follow up with Tug. She accompanies the ambulance to the hospital, is there when he wakes, and before long, she's helping him home. From here on out, we the readers are swept along for the ride. Next, we meet Annie, one of Grace's troubled patients, a young woman who is anything but patient with the theory of psychology. Annie is everything you don't wish for in a teenager: petulant, rebellious, caustic with her words and manipulative with her manner. Oddly, however, she is not likely who you will dislike the most. Enter Mitch, Grace's ex-husband, also an essential player in the story. Mitch is also a therapist, and comes back into Grace's life in the most unexpected way. Ohlin strings together the lives of these four richly developed characters with such clarity and sharpness of writing. As the readers, we begin to sympathize, but the characters themselves never become precious; they are too human for that. All over the globe from Canada to New York, Rwanda to Hollywood, the subjects of Ohlin's novel orbit around one another, making disastrous decisions - yet evoking no sense of hopelessness or pity in us. Instead, Ohlin keeps such a strong hold on her language, remaining meticulously generous in a way that allows her characters to grow from the foundation she has set for them. We can easily imagine that Ohlin simply penned the outline of the story and then set the characters free upon the page to play out the story as humanly possible as they could. Ultimately, Inside is a story of relationships: those we cherish, those we cling to desperately, those we push away and those we let slip away. Ohlin's Grace, Tug, Annie and Mitch are the perfect foursome to tell this story. Head to www.EverydayeBook.com for more eBook reviews ",
   "This book is exactly why literature exceeds all forms of culture and communications as a means of dealing with the human condition. Ohlin takes a idealized element of our society - therapists - shows us not only the complex individuals that they are, but also the people they have tried to heal once they have left their care. And not always with a 'happy ending.' Page 254: In the nights to come Mitch lost the ability to sleep. He watched old movies in the middle of the night, spent hours with the Weather Channel. He went to work and got through the group-therapy sessions on autopilot; he listened intensely to the participants' stories but forgot them immediately; when writing up his notes he couldn't remember much of what they'd said, and his scrawled observations seemed like the thoughts of a stranger. He called no on.e He ran five miles a day, his skin flooded with warmth against the increasingly cold air. In November, a freezing rainstorm encased the leafless tress in ice, the salt on sidewalks crunching beneath his feet. The Habs lost to the Maple Leafs. His fantasy picks were a shambles. He didn't take up drinking; he didn't miss a day of work. He wasn't even sure that other people could see the numbness inside him, the mechanical nature of his commintment to his own life. There came a time when, without quite noticing at first, he was sleeping through the night. The running helped, and so did work. He wouldn't have said that his spirits, for lack of anything else to do were rising; he wouldn't have wanted to admit that. He would have siad that he came from a family where each peoson had a talent. Their mother's was to take care of them. Malcolm's was to be happy. His was to let things go.",
   "I love all of Alix Ohlin's writing—from her first collection of stories, Babylon and Other Stories, to her first novel, The Missing Person. But Inside is my favorite work of hers to date.  Inside is aptly titled given that Ohlin has a preternatural ability to penetrate her characters' minds and hearts. This, even more than Ohlin's gorgeous prose and carefully crafted plot, is the reason to read Inside. As Ohlin maps out the lives of her disparate characters—from an up-and-coming actress in New York and L.A. to a former relief worker in Rwanda—she makes visible the inner workings of absolute strangers. (I say strangers because as I read Inside, I began to feel that Ohlin's characters were actually real people I didn't use to know and now do.) In making visible what is dim at best in others, Ohlin offers the possibility that this kind of seeing may not be an impossible feat—and that we therefore may also see others, and be seen, with an eye not just to the specific form our troubles have taken but also to our kinship.  When reading Inside, I was reminded of D.H. Lawrence's “Odour of Chrysanthemums,” in which a woman, when presented with her husband's corpse, confronts the reality that she never really knew him—the implication being that we can never really know another. 'Was this what it all meant - utter, intact separateness, obscured by the heat of living? In dread, she turned her face away.” Inside is so beautiful because Ohlin doesn't turn away. ",
   "Okay, I wanted to like this book - it was about a therapist, so it should have been right up my alley. But I got about 1/3 into it and I just thought,  This book is not doing anything for me, why am I wasting my time waiting for this to get better?  So, I stopped. It started out well enough - therapist skiing, stumbles across a man trying to kill himself, she stops him takes him home, starts  therapizing.  Then things shift to her guilt about her life and the reader loses track of the man and the intricacy of that relationship and moves into  when I was young I did something I have a lot of guilt for therefore I shall moan about it forever.  Urgh. So, it could have gotten better, I don't know. But for me, it wasn't better fast enough. ",
   "I can't quite get myself to liking this book. I think it was just Ohlin's writing style in this that didn't grab me. I found the prose to be a little lack-lustre for my personal taste. But the characters are complex and their relationships are intelligently portrayed. I just didn't have an emotional attachment to any of them. Is there a  Montreal-style  of writing? I feel like authors from Montreal often portray the same mood in their novels. Upon completion of Ohlin's book I feel the same as I did after finishing Nino Ricci's Origin of Species: a little sad and a little bored. ",
   'Having no idea what this book was about, it was an absolute delight. It is more about what goes on inside a person than any particular plot. The characters are completely believable. ',
   'Really found this book striking and hard to put down. It felt like life, with crises and love and tragedy and beauty. Initially I had a hard time keeping track of the characters, but once their relationships were more clear I had an easier time. Reminiscent of Sally Rooney but a bit more mature and less concise.',
   "Alix Ohlin's Inside is the only novel this year to be nominated for both the ScotiaBank Giller and the Rogers Writers' Trust fiction prizes. That's quite an accomplishment for a book that was so viciously slammed by William Giraldi in The New York Times Sunday Book Review:  Ohlin's language betrays an appalling lack of register — language that limps onto the page proudly indifferent to pitch or vigor. Mitch's “heart sang” and then Mitch's “heart sank”; poor Mitch “felt his heart cracking like ice cubes in warm water.” Annie “had touched Grace's heart” but had also “gotten under her skin.” Grace feels “marooned on her own private island” and then “her nerves were singing.” In just 13 pages you will be asked to endure eyes “fluttering,” then “shining,” then “fluttering” again. Mitch's girlfriend is “brilliantly smart” — imagine for a second the special brand of languor required to connect those two terms — and also blows her nose “goose-honkingly hard.” Ohlin's preferred simile is some variation of the lazy “like a child,” and she has a baffling fondness for the most worthless word in English: “weird.” Giraldi obviously needs to get over himself, but for all its negativity his review did do one positive thing. It ensured that his novel, Busy Monsters, will never find its way onto my to-read pile. Hooray for one less book to worry about reading! READ MORE: http://www.typographicalera.com/insid...",
   "3.5 stars. Understated yet enjoyable book with very real characters, but no strong plot. I liked the way this book was written. I don't remember the author going into much detail describing the characters, but I found it very easy to imagine these characters as real people to the point where halfway through the book, I re-realized that this book was fiction. Ohlin creates these characters by describing what happens to them and it's these collective experiences that eventually comprise a complete person.  There wasn't really a strong plot in my opinion. Unlike murder mysteries or other fiction novels, I couldn't identify a solid end that all these events were leading up to, which makes sense because the book was only about a portion of the characters' lives. Regardless, I was interested (but not edge-of-my-seat captivated) throughout. I think where the book succeeds the most is in its subtlety and believability. I didn't really like the end because it didn't conclude this capsule of time nor leave the reader with anything to think about or wonder. This is probably where the plot's weakness shows the most, being unable to sustain intrigue beyond the end of the novel. ",
   "I really enjoyed  Inside  because of the way this novel peels away at the layers of human feeling, motives, personal histories, backgrounds and tendencies which make up the complexity of being. Also, I liked the structure of the novel, bouncing between locations, points in time, and characters which were gradually more and more interwoven in their interactions, and the reader's understanding of their actions and complexities, their differences, and their heartaches. This book isn't for anyone looking a happy, sweet narrative or compelling answers to life's problems. Rather, there are many small rushes of emotion through life's strange and sometimes horrific heartaches. Sometimes even the smallest things have meaning when put in a particular context. For example, Grace's Christmas gift to her mother-in-law of orange lipstick made my eyes glisten. But you need to read the book to find out why. I loved  Inside , as well, because it does not judge: lives have unexpected twists and turns; people often do not act like we want them to act. We long to make sense of people, and it's sometimes emotionally difficult when we can't make sense of their actions. Highly recommended.",
   ' Let me out!  (response to the book  Inside ). The novel is arranged into chapters focusing on several different characters in different years; it hops back and forth between years and character viewpoints. I like that style, for it promises various insights that sometimes are dependently available only with the distance of time and other events. Two of the characters are therapists, and the others are intricately enveloped by a therapy fog that feels like a displaced novel of the 70s. When the reader has to suspend disbelief as a coping mechanism for the implausibility of some events, then one expects to be rewarded for the effort. But instead, more stupidities ensue. Like the characters in the novel who had trouble committing, I had difficulties committing to the characters.  Two stars, elevated to three for occasional gem flashes of prose stylings.',
   "I found this to be well written overall. I read and read, and kept asking myself...where's this going? This will all make sense soon. These characters and there stories will link up right? Um....not so much. When it ended, I looked up to my husband who was sitting beside me and said  That's it? That's the end?  I just didn't get it. The ending, the middle...none of it. There were some good chapters that I felt could have each been a short story. There were some funny lines (when one of the characters was disappointed that the psychologist couldn't prescribe drugs...my favourite moment in the book in fact). Most of the characters felt depressed and narcissistic. I did not like nor did I relate to any of these characters. It felt as though I was reading a book about a bunch of people with Asperger's Syndrome bumping into each other on the road of life. I just didn't get it.",
   "I wanted to like this book. I picked it up because I had read an excerpt from the first chapter and it was intriguing. I tried to ignore the signs--the signs that the writing was just not all that good, and the characters were not satisfying, and the interwoven stories structure was not going well. But by the third or fourth chapter, I couldn't deny my misgivings any more. I think it was the line,  With her thick-framed glasses and disapproving look, she resembled a librarian more than the lawyer she was.  UGH. How stereotypical can you be? Come on.  I decided life is too short, and moved on. ",
   "Grace, therapist, finds a man on a mountain; also, her ex-husband flees his new girlfriend and her son. Books like this are not made for me, and I am not made for books like this. I understand that it was written commendably and it was all about real lives coming together and apart and whatnot. But I'm frustrated because nothing really happened, or if it did, it was written in this quiet contained way where the happening was almost indistinguishable from the not happening, and the why was completely lost. Blegh. ",
   "Alex Ohlin certainly doesn't deserve the nasty review she got in the NYT Book Review. This book was decently written -- arguably purposefully flat -- and the interconnected stories held my interest. And I also appreciated reading a bok set in Montreal. Having said that, it wasn't as compelling or original as other Giller nominated books this year like Ru or The Imposter Bride. (Haven't yet read 469 -- although it's in the cue)",
   "Intricately woven stories that touch each other and see the character's struggles/thoughts (inside) and see where they journey along in life and how they manage their triumphs and challenges. Enjoyed the character's development in each of the storylines.",
   "4.5 for me. This book has been sitting by my bedside table for months. I'm not sure what I was waiting for...perhaps cold weather to match the cover or a gap in my tbr pile. Inside is beautifully written, has a cast of captivating characters and several unique settings: Iqaluit, Kigali, Montreal, Edinburgh, New York. The author does a great job weaving time and place. ",
   "One evening, bone-tired after one of those longs days we can have, I said 'I will read a page': then ignoring my fatigue read twenty; or again, vowing to read 20 minutes which is my usual per-day minimum I ploughed through to the end of the book. It is a credit to a writer when one can engage (or entrap) his or her readers so consistently, and I credit Alix Ohlin for the diligence and care she exacted of herself to make Inside such an interesting and readable book. The story itself is simple, alternating among years as we follow the interior lives and loves of young (then increasingly not so young) women (e.g. Grace) and men (e.g. Mitch) though the terrain of their mostly unbuilt lives.  They emerge as individuals blessed with intelligence and are honest, hard working, well-meaning people. Most have the advanced degrees we expect our young to earn today and they are in good jobs. The catch is that none of these apparently debt-free characters are exceptional or even particularly good at their jobs or their lives. There is a lot of failure and in this regard the book can be heavy reading at times. One of the supporting characters, Tug, is an AID worker whose mind appears to have been destroyed by his stint in Rwanda when a million Tutsis were massacred there. One thread running through much of the book suggests this is a generation that easily loses faith in themselves and have little hope in life in general. There emerged for me a sense of hopelessness in Alix Ohlin's focus on failure. I wondered if she was reflecting what Generation X and Millennials feel about life and the world. Although I agree it can be readily perceived as a distressing and depressing place but it seems a complacent attitude to adopt as Tug had suggested 'we are the comfortable nation' and maybe the generations just expect more. And in their hearts though many would agree that 'civilization is a highway of bones'.  On May 14th the Globe and Mail published an obituary celebrating the life of a Canadian AID worker, Rich Denham who had trained as a civil engineer and who served on more than 70 overseas missions including Rwanda during the genocide, suffered of course, survived and had four children, five grandchildren and worked meanwhile as an environmental commissioner for the City of Ottawa, all the while continuing his overseas work whenever he had the chance. He was also the first Canadian to volunteer for the Doctors without Borders. So it is possible, with a little grit, to have it all - it is not so much that it requires effort (and blood, sweat and tears, which it sometimes does) but that it requires hope. That is the hardest thing, especially when things are going wrong: to believe in possibility . One quote I heard while reading Inside was from Molly's Game, attributed to Winston Churchill, on success: it is the ability to move from one failure to another without any loss of enthusiasm.  Somewhat ironically, given her tough home life and seeming lack of education the most resilient of Inside's characters seems to be Annie. She asks for nothing from life but believes in its beneficence and subconsciously that the universe will provide if she just risks putting herself out there. It is in Annie - in Ohlin's creation of this minor but wonderful character, Anne ('Annie') Hardwick - that the author almost loses the thread of her story. Annie enters Grace's life, early on and briefly, as a 16-year-old from a well-to-do family, comprising a domineering father and meek mother, whom she hates and who is cutting herself, and Grace is asked to provide psychological counselling. Although the story is about Grace, and Tug, and Mitch and a few other relatively minor characters it is Annie who I found fascinating. Early on Ohlin says of Annie that nothing was real to her but herself. It was not that she was selfish but that she was contented and self-contained. There is a brief episode where Mitch, with Grace who is preoccupied, sees this 'extremely pretty young woman walk by' and who turns to walk towards them, and in spite of himself and without saying a word he transforms almost involuntarily into a peacock in response to this woman's presence and innate beauty. (I would read a whole book just about Annie and wish Alix Ohlin would take a sabbatical and get to work on it). Annie is a tour de force and reminded me of Betty Davis (Vanity Fair did a good review of her in 2010 “The Lonely Lady - the Devil in Betty Davis  https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/... ) and one could see this same combination of loneliness (by choice) and greatness in Annie. Some smitten admirer or lover could easily write a Betty Davis' Eyes for Annie. But by her own admission she is a rolling stone, gathering little moss. She is called cold but is not: she just needs to be alone, free and on the road, and she knows that she is deeply, maybe permanently flawed. In one of her counselling sessions with Grace 16-year-old Annie utters “I am rotten; I am diseased”.  There was a documentary recently on wealth that concluded that for the most part the wealthy are not doing much that can be considered good with their massive wealth. Paul Allen, co-founder of Microsoft, died recently leaving over $20 billion to no one in particular. It is here that Annie's flaws are not fatal or soul-destroying for those that meet her or love her. She is generous with her talent, money, time, loving. It is just that she does not stay. In the Mitch / Grace incident, when the 'extremely pretty, young woman' comes by, Grace looks up - as readers we know it is Annie and we know that Mitch has never met her - glances at Annie, does not recognize her and goes back to what she had been doing. That is the price Annie will have to pay if she is not careful: oblivion.  But there was a sense throughout that each of their lives mattered. There were two suicides in the book and one had the sense that the loss of these mattered too. Grace and Annie shared one trauma in that they, both as teens, had had abortions, and Grace remembers 'getting it was ridiculously and awfully easy' and later reflects on it as follows: '…her carelessness in getting pregnant; her ruthlessness in getting the abortion'. Because the story in structured on focusing the interiority of a central character at a time, whether Grace, or Annie, or Mitch, we, like these main characters, do not know if the people they are dealing with are on the up and up.  There was a lot therefore in the book that was very good. I really enjoyed it and recommend it. I wish the story had been a little lighter but overall got a lot of value in reading and reflecting on it. I thought early on that what we want in a book is to see or read writing that is beautifully crafted so that reading is almost effortless, even through the few unsettling parts. I felt that to some significant degree Alix Ohlin (and her supporters and editors) achieved that goal. The story and characters are memorable. I also want more Annie. Edwin ",
   "Alix Ohlin's Inside has a lot of characteristics that I typically do not like in a book: her characters are both contrived and clichés, two of them being therapists out to help everyone they meet with their problems, another two being troubled teenagers, and another being a man damaged by the horrors he faced doing international aid work. Yikes, right? This book is so full of self-flagellation I wasn't sure I had the stomach for it. In the end though I finished it having been a tiny smidge won over by Alix Ohlin. Sure the book ends with a million loose ends that make you feel it was really two books in one, but she is doing something interesting despite all these negative points. There is some deep truth in her depiction of how people can slip in and out of each other's lives today. People, particularly young people, tend to make quick friendships and relationships, but their lives are built on shifting sands. I remember when I was moving from my home city Edmonton to Ontario a friend told me, 'you can entirely remake yourself if you want' because I would know no one there. Ohlin looks at what this kind of possibility entails, and she, like me, sees more potential for losing yourself and escapism than renewal. As an aside I had heard about the absolute drubbing Ohlin received by William Giraldi in the NYT book review. After having read the book I looked up this somewhat notorious review and was pretty disgusted by his complete lack of professionalism. The review is snide and snarky, and has zero balance. Giraldi comes off sounding enraged. One of the strangest reviews I have ever read. ",
   "I believe the beautiful, and brilliant book jacket photo shows you the whole story. A delicate, monochromatic grey reflection. A snowball, entrapping safely its bits of  cold snow . The characters are mostly reaching out to others to be of real help; or are they trying to test their own limitations. In some cases the efforts are almost certainly doomed; in others the character may not be strong enough to persist with seeing thing through to the end. They are all striving to be INSIDE their own lives, yet they cannot quite manage to round out their lives and live them fully. They are all dangling in such uncomplete states. Nothing feels solid about these characters. But, for the most part, there remains enough self-knowledge and good-heartedness that we are left with feeling hopeful that they will successfully muddle through, as most people do. The writing was adequate, the characterizations didn't go deep enough (each needed more self-reflection); but it was delightful to read a story set in all the nooks and crannies of the neighbourhood in which I spent most of my  formative years .  Revision,next day: what I thought of as extraneous to the story (& I still do) is actually a good sketch of the realities of L.A. & and  the business  (entertainment biz , of course). So my 2 star rating has bumped up one.",
   "I have a very ambivalent feeling about this book. I like the way it is written and still this isn't my type of book. The style is good, but in the beginning it's difficult to get involved and feel comfortable with the characters in the story.  The Dutch title is  Help  where the English title is  Inside  which in my opinion covers the plot better.  All the characters in the book are involved with the lives of other people which they want to help. The result of all this altruism is that the characters mess up their own lives. That very depressing to read, because they want to do good and in the end their lives seem to have useless. Some of them even decide to step out and commit suicide.  The two main characters know somehow, deep inside that they care for each other, but hesitate to restore their former relationsip which ended in a divorce.  The chapters jump back and forth between the past and the future (up to 2006) which make reading the book difficult at first hand.  I admire the plot line, but I wonder if I will read another book of this author. ",
   "It took me awhile to warm up to this novel. At first, I didn't connect with any of the characters, and the overall tone seemed rather bleak. Part of this stemmed from the spare prose and pared-down physical details, esp related to setting. I love to fall in love with lush prose, and I didn't find it here. However, as the characters' interwoven journeys progressed, something kept me reading, perhaps out of longing that at least one of these damaged people might end up in a satisfying, successful relationship. I credit Ohlin for her skill in characterization and insight into human frailty. Even though I didn't especially like the people in the story, I felt as if I knew them intimately, hoping each time I sensed an emotional train wreck looming that, this time, they'd sense it, too, and in time to board a different train. ",
   "I got this one from the 2012 Canadian Giller Prize shortlist - and it's a belter.  It's a smart, convincing, time-lapsing tale of family and relationships, as good as any Jonathan Franzen - with a small cast of very well drawn, nuanced characters held together by connections that at no point felt too 'concept'.  At heart, it's about the vain efforts we make to help and understand the unknown that is the other person (the 'inside', I guess). There's plenty of bleakness, but it's ultimately pretty optimistic. I loved the handling of all those mixed up, guarded relationships that characters found themselves in - and the interaction of Mitch and Grace / her daughter is so well observed. And that's probably the best portrait of a child I've come across since…Updike. The Lorrie Moore comparisons are well deserved. What a pleasant surprise. ",
   "The writing is really fine, and the characters are interesting, but I'm not sure that the idea of a story that loosely connects through various kinds of meetings really worked in this. It felt a bit like the author identified with the main character of the psychologist/therapist - a bit distant, overarching, curious but not too involved and in the end, not someone I related much to. None of this is a problem except the hype around the book, a finalist in the Booker awards, leads you to believe that you'll be swept away:  With razor-sharp emotional intelligence, Inside poignantly explores the many dangers as well as the imperative of making ourselves available to—and responsible for—those dearest to us.  I didn't find much in it that was  razor-sharp   emotional   poignant  or  imperative  - but it is intelligent :) Wanna-be writers could learn a lot from this book. "],
  '_version_': 1748767602317983744},
 {'id': '33843',
  'author': 'Bethan Roberts',
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "From the moment Marion first lays eyes on Tom - her best friend's big brother, broad, blond, blue-eyed - she is smitten.And when he comes home from National Service to be a policeman, Marion, a newly qualified teacher, is determined to win him.Unable to acknowledge the signs that something is amiss, she plunges into marriage, sure that her love is enough for both of them...,But Tom has another life, another equally overpowering claim on his affections.Patrick, a curator at the Brighton Museum, is also besotted with his policeman, and opens Tom's eyes to a world previously unknown to him.But in an age when those of 'minority status' were condemned by society and the law, it is safer for this policeman to marry his teacher.The two lovers must share him, until one of them breaks and three lives are destroyed.,Unfolding through the dual narratives of Marion and Patrick, both writing about the man at the centre of their lives, this beautifully-told, painful, tragic story is revealed.It is a tale of wasted years, misguided love and thwarted hope, of how at a time when the country was on the verge of change so much was still impossible.Bethan Roberts has produced an intense and exquisitely raw yet tender novel, which proves her to be one of our most exciting young writers.",
  'genre': ['Fiction',
   'LGBT',
   'Historical',
   'Historical Fiction',
   'Romance',
   'Contemporary',
   'GLBT',
   'Queer',
   'Literary Fiction',
   'Gay',
   'Adult'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1333578894l/13153370.jpg',
  'isbn': '701185848',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13153370-my-policeman',
  'page_count': '352',
  'rating': 4.05,
  'review_count': 542,
  'title': 'My Policeman',
  'rating_count': 3641,
  'sensitivity': ['trauma',
   'anxiety',
   'divorce',
   'torture',
   'death',
   'fire',
   'pregnancy',
   'homophobia'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['stunning',
   'dying',
   'deep',
   'fascinating',
   'magic',
   'favorite',
   'rushed',
   'fun',
   'terrible',
   'twist',
   'emotional',
   'lack',
   'bad',
   'intimate',
   'torture',
   'spoilers',
   'dramatic',
   'captured',
   'universal',
   'worth',
   'better',
   'complex',
   'period',
   'famous',
   'important',
   'lacks',
   'obsessed',
   'mid',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'magnetic',
   'waste',
   'best',
   'acclaimed',
   'vivid',
   'sweet',
   'surprised',
   'redemption',
   'captivating',
   'familiar',
   'mess',
   'attention',
   'hated',
   'twisted',
   'top',
   'rich',
   'relatable',
   'revenge',
   'hate',
   'classic',
   'enjoyable',
   'worthy',
   'smut',
   'regret',
   'worst',
   'enjoyed',
   'sad',
   'realistic',
   'great',
   'queer',
   'solid',
   'heart',
   'invested',
   'forgettable',
   'hooked',
   'loved',
   'perfect',
   'awkward',
   'beautiful',
   'annoying',
   'drama',
   'struggle',
   'epic',
   'lacking',
   'new',
   'brilliant',
   'rare',
   'poor',
   'relate',
   'funny',
   'wonderful',
   'interesting',
   'surprise',
   'pleasant',
   'different',
   'easy',
   'wow',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'annoyed',
   'painful',
   'cringe',
   'alien',
   'fake',
   'forward'],
  'mood': ['neutral', 'fear', 'anger', 'joy', 'sadness'],
  'review': ["Review contains spoilers. Because I am the worst type of person. Omg, why I did read this? No, seriously why? I guess I wanted to read something queer that wasn't explicitly m/m ... except I forgot a certain tendency (and this is an issue I have that is detached from the identity of the writer) in litfic about teh gays (see also A Little Life) around that there's a massive (I would argue, mostly straight) market for stories WHERE THEY MAKE US AS MISERABLE AS POSSIBLE. And while I have some patience for marginalised people writing tragedy for themselves for the sake of having a voice and finding catharsis, I have exactly none for non-marginalised people (or people marginalised along different axes) diddling themselves gleefully over the fact that marginalised people have shitty lives. Anyway, what's especially annoying about this book is that, in many ways, it is quite good. Except for the fact it's awful. It's set in 1950s Brighton, and evokes the period and the place really well. The writing is engaging and, at times, deeply compassionate, especially some of the sequences from Patrick's diary. The story is, as I have indicated, queer-tragedy-by-numbers. The 'my policeman' of the title is Tom ... a policeman, who falls in love with a gay museum curator, but still marries a womanz (who is also in love with him).  There's this slightly awkward framing device in which part of the book is written from the perspective of Marion, late in their lives, scribbling a confession to her husband about the events that took place earlier in their marriage. And the gaps are filled in by Patrick's diary, written at the time, and later used as evidence in his trial for acts of gross indecency. Tom has no voice of his own at all, existing only in the eyes of his two lovers, which is both fitting and annoying. Fitting because his silence is kind of A THEME and annoying because it means, as a reader, there's no way to access what these two people find so worth ruining their lives over in him. I mean, probably that's point. You can't precisely point at what in a person creates love and maintains it—love is always alien from the outside (oh, y'see, ANOTHER THEME). But, hey, I'm a romance reader. At least have a go. And, more defensibly, I'm not a big fan of devices-for-the-sake-of-devices. Thematic/appropriate is not enough if it's also emotionally disengaging. So say I, anyway. There's also this epic gap between the events and the frame. The frame being the future where Tom and Marion have been married for forty years, and presumably miserable, and Patrick has apparently had some kind of stroke, and Marion has insisted that she and Tom become his carer (for he has NOBODY because the gays, oh the gays, the lonely lives we lead) even though Tom won't speak to him because of TEH TRAGEDEE and Marion was the woman who literally brought about said tragedy. The events being the time the past where Marion got Patrick sent to prison for indecency on account of his banging (being in love with) her husband. Which is sort of a difficult situation all round. And obviously we're meant to blame SOCIETY, MAN, SOCIETY because if not for SOCIETY, MAN, SOCIETY than Tom would have been able to be with Patrick openly so he wouldn't have married a woman he didn't love and nobody would have been sent to prison for gross indecency.  On principle I didn't want to condemn Marion even though she does a terrible, terrible thing (and knows she did) because Evil Woman Destroys Beautiful Gays is a cliché I despise almost as intensely as Gays Are For Tragedy. Anyway, what's really jarring is that Tragedy Happens and we last leave Patrick being horribly beaten up in prison for, yep, you guessed it being a gay. And then we're blah years in the future and Patrick has had a terrible stroke and Marion is consumed by guilt for what she did to him. But ... what the fuck happened in between? I mean, I realise it's a book about an incident - the events leading directly up to it and the far-reaching emotional consequences. And it couldn't exactly detail The Fully Well Rounded And Satisfying Life Patrick Lived After Being Released From Prison Before Incidentally Having A Stroke because that would a) be very long b) outside the scope of the book and c) destroy the deep terrible tragedy of the gays. But it does sort of feel like one the tragedy has happened, the author couldn't be arsed any more. Except to swoop in and beat on a gay a bit more. I mean, yes, the man lost everything. Let's give him a stroke too! Why not! Anyway, here is a bit of Patrick thinking about his relationship with his ex-lover, Michael. And nicely indicates why this book infuriated me to the degree it did, because it's quietly beautiful and very sad and sort of indicates that you can discuss this stuff without a drama klaxon. We used to dance, Michael and I. Every Wednesday night. I'd make everything right. Fire laid. Dinner made (he loved anything with cream and butter. All those French sauces - sole au vin blanc, poulet au gratin à la crème landaise - and, to finish, if I'd had time, Saint Émilion au chocolat). A bottle of claret. The sheets fresh and clean, a towel laid out. A newly pressed suit. And music. All the sentimental magic that he loved. Caruso to start (I've always hated him, but for Michael I endured it). Then Sarah Vaughan singing 'The Nearness of You'. We'd cling to each other for hours, shuffle round on the rug like a couple of marrieds, his cheek burning against mine. Wednesdays were an indulgence, I know that. For him and for me. I made him his favourite butter-rich foods (which played havoc with my stomach), hummed along to 'Danny Boy', and, in return, he danced in my arms. Only when the records were all played, the candles burned down to pools of wax, would I slowly undress him, here in my sitting room, and we'd dance again, naked, in absolute silence, save for our quickening breaths. PS - Michael is blackmailed for his gayness and kills himself. [This review brought to you by GR's insistence that I read 12 books this year in a public way] Edit: from the semi-regular comments I STILL get on this review (despite the fact I wrote it in 2016) this is one of my most contentious GR reviews. Listen, if you liked this book, that's cool. You can even tell me why it worked for you, when it didn't work for me, if you want.  What is a completely pointless waste of your time, however, is swinging by to tell me what I felt about the book is wrong. Looking back, was I bit uncharitable? Y'know, probably. Have I taken the time to try to understand where the book was coming from and acknowledge its strengths: yes. Does the book for me: still no. And that is okay. This is a critically acclaimed book published by a high profile author, who has recently secured a film deal on it. Believe me, she is fine. She does not need to be defended from a non-glowing GR review by someone utterly irrelevant to her. And, yes, yes, you can still come to complain at me because you liked the book and I didn't. Just don't expect me to care?",
   'adding this book because of  reasons  (✨harry styles✨) ',
   "harry styles world domination, i guess? i'll update soon",
   'Goodreads needs to get their shit together and make half stars an option',
   'the fact that harry styles is playing tom... like pls yes thank u.',
   "I was both fascinated and immensely annoyed by this book. The blurb describes it as a tragic love story, of a man and a woman both in love with the same man in a time (the 1950s) when it is safer for him to marry the woman and maintain a front of respectability. As a longtime reader of LGBT fiction, it sounded like exactly the sort of book I would love. I didn't. In the spirit of fairness, I should list its good points: 1950s Brighton is beautifully vivid, and the prevailing attitudes of the time are well-captured. Patrick and his mother are wonderful characters, Julia (a relatively minor character, yet an important one) is great, and the relationship between Tom and Patrick feels era-appropriately dangerous. However, Marion - the main protagonist - is an out and out bitch. I don't use that word lightly, but honestly, I don't think I've hated a female character this much since Mary-Anne in the Tales of the City series. I think we're supposed to empathise with her plight - she's young and unworldly, living in a time when homosexuality just wasn't talked about, so when she announces that she's in love with Tom and is warned by his  sister , no less, that he's 'not like that' she's naively (or willfully) unaware of what that means. I wanted to punch her then, and I didn't shift much on that opinion throughout the rest of the book. If anything, my loathing deepened as it became clear exactly what she'd done to dispose of her opposition. She loses a good fried - Julia - in her refusal to accept her husband's 'perversions', loses her husband his career, and destroys Patrick's life. And all so she can 'win' Tom, a plot which (thankfully) backfires spectacularly, leading to a loveless, sexless, forty year marriage. (What is never made clear is why Tom would choose to stay with this awful human being in later years when divorce and homosexuality both became more socially acceptable. Another big failing from my perspective is that Marion's point of view is so dominant, there isn't room for Tom to speak for himself.) The ending is heartbreaking. Marion finally does the right thing and tells Tom and the ailing Patrick what she did, and true to form, disappears to leave them to deal with it. I was so angry with her by this point that I didn't even care that the ending was a bit cliched and unnecessarily dramatic. In short, this isn't a gay romance, nor an exploration of the difficulties of maintaining a public face and an illegal private love. It's a straight woman's vision of those things, written for other straight women, and as I don't fall into that category I found it incredibly insulting and annoying. In the hands of a different writer I believe it could have been far more sensitively handled, and Marion could have even become less loathsome. As it is, for all its good points, it remains horrible. ",
   "I cut 2 stars because the author gave major spoilers on  Anna Karenina  which I was gonna read. Yes, I'm a stubborn bitch like that.",
   "I'll start by saying that, having read the book's summary, I was fully prepared for  some  gay trauma porn. I, however, expected something to come out of it, as I'm not opposed to tragic love-stories.  The thing is, though, this isn't a queer love-story. This is told from the perspectives of Tom's wife and Tom's lover, and I though it might create an interesting take on how an object of desire, unattainable at the time (be it because of social conventions, or because of a lack of sexual attraction), is described within the stories of those who retell it. And sadly, the dominant perspective is Marion's. At some point, I thought it was a bit of a shame that we're stuck with schoolteaching stories (and I'm a teacher trainee) when we could be reading the other, more interesting, side of the story, but I presumed it was a revindication of sorts, the reclaiming of one's life story when one has lived through it as an spectator. I could empathize with Marion's naive struggle, however misguided and restrictive it was. So you can imagine my surprise when I find out that I've been reading the ramblings of this pitiful old woman for about 300 pages just to realize that she's not naive, or misguided. She's downright  evil . And believe me, I don't say this lightly. It is one thing to have to connect the dots through the words of a third party, leaving our doomed lover to narrate only the pain. It is a very different one to find out our narrator has caused this pain and, in her dellusion, continues to do so. Marion willingly enters a marriage she knows isn't corresponded. Sticks with it for no other reason than her obsessions for a man that she knows won't ever love her. Outs a gay man in a time when it was a crime, costing him his job, his freedom, and his love (and this is important, however angry she was at Patrick for his affair with Tom, he didn't take him away from her, he never was hers; they loved each other, she is the misplaced piece here). Then she finds him, two strokes after and  drags  him to their house so her husband can see the consequences of the one good thing he had and shared with him, decades ago. So there's no memory of the man he use to know, just the shadow of him, twisted and decrepit; dying. So the man he betrayed has to depend on her care, the evil RAT who outed him. It is downright cruel. It's, as Tom puts it, her final revenge. And the idea that they'll read her misguided words, hand in hand, as if lovingly unburdened by the truth is so out of the realm of sanity that I want to slap her until she gets the sense she clearly lacks knocked into her. But we won't know how they'll react, do we? Because Marion (and, by extension, the author) isn't worried about that. That's why I say this isn't a love story. This is Marion's story, who cannibalizes someone else's to give gravitas to her own. The fucking vulture. But what do we  really  know about that love story? We know about the cravings of a man that's written delusional and sad. I know this is the 50s, but Patrick is the very painting of a man who knows his existence and desires are a crime, there's no room for hope here, from either him or Tom. No contained happiness that lasts more than some brief moments. There's a craving met with acceptance, but we don't read, on the page, the joy that followed that, only the sneaking around. Patrick never gets to claim anything, even if temporarily. Then we jump into the future to be subjected to a passage on his prison time that felt like torture. That's it. The three decades between his short time in prison and his stroke are of no importance. The visit to Venice is barely there, whereas we spend pages on Marion's schooltrip just so it can be the groundwork for more betrayal: Julia. A secondary, but rich, character. And one I would've wanted to hear more from, instead of our ever-droning ingenué, who also gets the short end of the stick by a woman who wishes herself to be modern and progressive, but is an ignorant bigot. Even Tom's sister shows up to trap a man with a fake pregnancy and agreingly nod at her brother's wife sabotaging his entire life. I foolishly expected to hear from Tom, in the end. To contrast both of those perspective's, finally, as he took central stage. He doesn't. We're instead tortured by another round of delusion as Marion continues to place herself as some misguided heroine, finally righting her wrongs. As if she ever could. And to top it off, she lets us know she'll pay a visit to Julia. Let that poor woman alone, you crone. This is your doing. No one asked you to stick around, but you burdened everyone (characters in the book and reader) with your presence and then threw a tantrum when you realized you were a fool. The author's style is good, the book is very readable, but not only is it a wasted opportunity to spend this much time away from the real story it supposedly wants to tell; by the time you reach the twist, you realize it never was something the author was interested in. She uses Tom and Patrick for setting, then spends the entire book on this romantic heroine-wannabe with delusions of grandeur. A straight woman talking about a straight woman, and one that's never truly condemned by the author for what she does, excused by the times, now atoning. This is some Briony bullshit. But Briony was a child, and atones with a fictional happy ending; Marion is an adult woman, and all she does is force her husband and his lover to relive more pain. Fucking c***. Tom and Patrick's love story barely has any interest to Roberts, outside of the thrilling feeling of unlawfulness she seems so interested in. And we know all this because we don't get to read the ending to it. The second Marion's out the door, it's over.",
   "5/5 My level of coherency right now: holyfuckingshit. That's about the only intelligent thing my brain's able to produce right now (which admittedly also could be because One Direction dropped a new tune out of nowhere but also because this book was awesome!!). This book is basically a tragic tale of three souls unfortunately tangled together. I don't think you were supposed to hate anyone, I sure as hell don't. At times I was so angry with Marion but at the same time I could sort of see her feelings, too? Like wow, she must have felt so massively betrayed by the person she loved the most...who didn't ever love her back but pretended to, because it was the easiest. Like straight up from the beginning you could see that someone was bound to get hurt. I was wrong; it wasn't someone. It was everyone. Sometimes the inevitability of it all made me frustrated to the point where I actually wanted to tear my hair out.  Everything about this book was literally perfect. I loved the characterizations. Admittedly I don't know a lot about the 1950's (I'm more up to date with the 1940s and also with the 1980s and onwards) but I loved the atmosphere of this book.  What's the most fucked up for me though is that PEOPLE WENT TO PRISON BECAUSE OF WHO THEY WERE LIKE FIFTY YEARS AGO????????????????? How????? fucked???? up?????? is????? that?!?!?!?!?!?! I mean. How could someone's sexuality ever be wrong. I can be open with who I am and no one ever bats an eye but fifty years ago, I could have been forced to go to prison. That's a scary thought. Also, I can't help but think that if this book had taken place in 2015, no one would have gotten hurt because you wouldn't have to hide now. You don't anymore, not in England at least.",
   'harry styles made me do it',
   "4.5  “For a policeman, you're very romantic” “For an artist, you're very afraid.” ",
   "Audiobook…narrated by Piers Hampton, and Emma Powell  …..10 hours and 10 minutes “My Policeman”, inspired by the life of E.M. Forester's long term relationship with a police officer, Bob Buckingham, is one of my favorite types of books to indulge in. It's a lushly woven tapestry of 'desire'…. with imperfect situations and imperfect characters…The storytelling is sultry….intimate….dangerous…captivating….shrewd….and a little intoxicating magnetic.  …We meet Patrick Hazelwood, ( wealthy, gay, educated, a museum curator)…..He falls in love with Tom.  …We meet Tom Burgess, ( gorgeous, gay, broad-shouldered, policeman) …He falls in love with Patrick …We meet Marion, (Tom's wife), she is a school teacher, more the outsider than the men. Marion fell in love with Tom knowing he was gay.  The personal effects of a heterosexual marriage with a gay spouse…. is a story that's been around since the beginning of time.  I could tell several 'true' stories myself….from the friends I know who have lived in such marriages. Each with different solutions and outcomes.  But….. being familiar with this topic - I felt loving affection for all the characters, their struggles, and their relationship complexities.  The story was as engaging as could be ….with elegant effortless prose.  I was hooked from beginning to end.  I haven't seen the film, but I'd like to.",
   "3.5/5; anyway harry styles i love you and i cannot wait to see you in the film adaptation  i could almost feel him listening, he was so eager to hear what i had to say. of course, that's the greatest flattery: a willing ear.  the plot is laid bare in the description and while we know of the psychosocial consequences of the bury your gays trope, the book makes it very clear in the very first few pages that our queer characters have suffered all their lives. this could have been shorter, for there is an almost constant, lingering dullness, but it is also fairly well-written and is definitely one of the much better ones in the historical fiction genre. the setting is vivid and so well done, as are the dual narratives of marion and patrick, set forty years apart — very interesting (and heartbreaking) given their different motivations, expectations and experiences about their shared lover tom, whose point of view is never shared, sidelining him in his own story. and one might even extend that to the reality of a straight person authoring a book about a tragic gay relationship hmm?!!",
   " He doesn't know you, either, does he?   Beautifully written and incredibly sad. Reading this was like waiting for a train wreck to happen. It's heartbreaking to see how intolerance can literally ruin so many lives and to know that it could be a crime just to exist.  I would have enjoyed this story if it was more of a love story, but it was too focused on Marion's selfishness. At first I sympathized with her but I couldn't quite find myself to feel any compassion with her toward the end... I didn't find any of the characters to be particularly likeable (besides Julia?). Although their circumstances were of course difficult, I couldn't quite connect with them. I wished this book included a section with Tom's POV, it would have added some depth and layers of humanization to both Marion and Patrick.  Overall this was definitely a sad, moving story about betrayal and regret. But I think I just expected it to be something more. ",
   "Harry Styles tricked me into reading this book. It is okayish, but I found some parts quite boresome. Meh. I'll still watch the film because of “reasons” though. PS: come on, Goodreads, bring us some half stars, these ratings aren't accurate.",
   "[ she tried to redeem herself in the end with the confession. of course she is deeply in love with this man and somewhere inside she knows it will never work but you'd think that after a few months of throwing herself at him her pride, or SOMETHING, would kick in? please don't think i am blaming her for the situation though. tom could have left and gone back to patrick, but he too was crippled with fear and self-loathing, which i definitely understand. well, i guess i'm just being naive and wishing for an easier solution where there isn't one ...  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "4.5*** This was BRILLIANT!!! “You were looking at Tom without smiling, with an expression of deep absorption. You considered him, in the same way that others in the room were considering the displays.” ❤️ The deep emotions captures between the characters of this story remind me a lot of the complex relationships in the novels of E. M. Forster. Forster is even mentioned in “My Policeman” as one of the forward thinking creatives who is striving for change.  What's even more fascinating, as a huge fan of Forster myself, is that this story is based off of Forster's relationship with policeman Robert Buckingham.  ❤️ One of my favorite things to do after reading and falling in love with an authors works is to research and learn about their lives. It's evident in this stunning novel that Bethan Roberts did this as well! The fact that the poetic words of one writer can influence and produce more poetic words from another writer is magic!  ❤️ “DUM-de, went my trochaic heart.”",
   'my favorite thing about the book is that it feels like a book. it feels like a real like, you know, go to the bookstore, novel, book',
   "Audio - 5 Stars Story - 4.5 Stars I'll never understand why the people sharing the one person in a love triangle give that person so much freedom and power over them. Why do they love that person so much?? ",
   'I have a lot of feelings about this book, but all I have to say is Patrick deserved better.',
   "it was amazing!! at first, i wasn't liking it as much cuz it wasn't too exciting, but then i realized that it didn't have to be exciting, and the ending really tied up all the loose ends. my only problem would probably be that it wasn't specified as to who was narrating, and in the beginning I'd be reading from one person's perspective and find out it was another person, but I got used to the switches. it would've been helpful to title the chapters with 'Marion' or 'Patrick'.  the book all in all is a solid 4.5 stars  want to read this for reasons known as ✨harry styles✨",
   "Well, this one's left me feeling conflicted. First off, I'd like to say that - generally speaking - I do think the book achieved what (I hope) it was trying to do. Offering us the perspectives of Marion and Patrick but leaving Tom an outsider to his own narrative, these journal entries created a version of Tom that could only ever be shrouded in secrecy. He was a guest, a constant but distant subject of desire, in these two narrators' lives, making the reader get a grasp on his lack of agency.  Though presented as the main narrator, Marion's lack of positive traits makes it difficult to relate to or sympathise with her. I feel for her struggle in the sense that she was so obsessed with the idea of a man to relieve her of societal pressures that she closed herself off to the signs of his disinterest and, sometimes, disdain. She was deceived - but her feelings of betrayal do not justify her choices. I cannot and will not pretend that her narrative was brought to a satisfying ending. I did not expect one, don't get me wrong, but her final act of attempting to rectify her mistakes reeked of nothing but self-grandeur and a need to have the last word. She was a meddler, in every part of this story, and that's what made me dread each time the book returned to her entries. In the end, I hoped that Julia would leave her standing in the rain, abandoned. That's not a good way to feel about a protagonist's final send-off. If all of this was intentional, I commend the author - if not, I'm left unsettled. Regarding Patrick, I feel conflicted as well. I quite enjoyed the tonal shift, the obvious way in which Patrick had a much more realistic grasp on the world around him than Marion did. He was direct in his thoughts and feelings, a bit crass at times, and I felt a sense of kinship with him. Describing Tom, he veered into the same territory as Marion - obsessive, demanding, deceiving. But I felt like his love and his need for Tom's presence in his life were genuine. Reading his journals, I thought: Jesus fucking Christ, Tom must have the most intoxicating presence of anyone on this planet - with the way in which he made Patrick risk his own safety (and life) occasionally. I felt intrigued, because Tom sounded like more of an intriguing person through his eyes. With the way in which he acted around Patrick, I could understand why Patrick fell for him hard, and fast.  Tom - well. As I said earlier, Tom exists only as a culmination of whatever Marion and Patrick deemed worthy to point out about him. Humorous, shy, beautiful, interested in the world around him. Pained and paranoid and yet, somehow, reckless in his need for affection. I fell in love with him a little, reading these descriptions of him. His hurt and anger and apprehension, as well as his elation and joy, felt real. And yet, he seemed fickle. Disappearing and reappearing, giving people what he thought they wanted, staying quiet. Settling. I wonder whether I'd have minded his selfishness more, had his wife been someone other than Marion. Who knows.  All that being said, what made me pause the most was the way in which the story progressed after Venice. I won't go into detail but I've got to say that I feel like the stakes either weren't established correctly or that the pacing was off. We had years, decades even, that weren't addressed. Consequences to revalations that weren't explored. Tom's fate after the court testimonies, aside from his change in profession, was a footnote. Patrick doesn't exist until Marion decides that he should - and he's been dealt yet another painful, searing fate that Marion can't help but make entirely about herself. Tom's change in priorities and feelings goes largely unaddressed, aside from a quick mention of the men he fucks on the side.  The glimmer of hope I felt, reading about Tom wanting to reconnect with Patrick after Marion's lied to him about his condition, was soured by Marion's need for control once more. She couldn't help it - she had to make the resolution to decades of loss and pain and fear about her own guilt and redemption. I genuinely wished that Tom would abandon her letters and approach Patrick without them. Tell his own story, maybe, because it'd been lacking in Marion's and Patrick's.  Like Marion mentioned - all Patrick ever wanted was for Tom to be there. He needed him, either to recover or to let go. What Tom wanted, we don't really know. What Marion wanted, the voice in my head wanted to deny her.  My rating for this book is so ambivalent because I cannot for the life of me figure out whether my feelings of dissatisfaction and frustration were aimed for by the author or not. If they were - well played, I very much dislike where this story has placed its focus. I enjoyed the writing itself for the most part, aside from a handful of moments that made me cringe with second-hand embarrassment, but I feel like there's heaps of unexplored potential here.  I'm interested to see whether the film adaptation will finally grant Tom some agency of his own.",
   "4.8/5   READ BY HARRY STYLES   In Bethan Roberts's latest novel, 'my' is the most important word. Possessive, nigh-obsessive, her narrative constantly questions the notion of having anyone. Told through Marion's marriage to Tom, Roberts's story deftly unfolds the contradictions and hypocrisies of pre-Wolfenden Britain. But what starts out as a bitter memoir becomes a truly insightful tale. “It's easy to become very focused, I've found, on such small things. Especially when every day is the same” Set in Brighton in the late 1950s, it's hard to believe how much attitudes towards the LGBTQ+ community have changed for the better. It's physically painful to read. Marion, a young teacher falls in love with Tom, her best friend's handsome older brother. When he asks her to marry him she is overjoyed, despite hints that he is  not like that  and his close friendship with Patrick, a cultured museum curator. “You were looking at Tom without smiling, with an expression of deep absorption. You considered him, in the same way, that others in the room considering the displays” Roberts's attention to detail of period and place creates a beautiful picture of mid-20th century Brighton, full of allusions that are instantly recognizable to anyone who's lived there or visited. This merely adds to the pleasure of this novel. The narrative alternates between the voices of Marion and Patrick and gives a real sense of the excitement and pain involved in falling in love, especially love which is forbidden. At times Marion's obliviousness seems unbelievable, but her dawning realization of the truth and her reactions to this feel gut-wrenchingly true to life.  Because Tom and the older man loved each other very much...They loved each other. Tom's pride and his fear stopped him from ever seeing the man again. Despite this, the man went on loving him. He will always love him...He will always love him. ",
   "For the love of all the gods.  The eye-watering was real. I don't cry while reading ok? Like ever. I've fought back tears before, but it's a rare occurrence.  I don't think I've ever been so on the verge of crying as I was for this book.  It was so beautiful.  The VERY FIRST thing I want to address is this phrase:  gay porn . I saw it in a couple of reviews for this book and I was surprised. Said reviews were mostly complaining about how much there is of it. Of how much GAY PORN there is in this book. To this, I have 2 things to say: 1.  What's the problem with gay porn? Is it about the porn or about the gay or both? If you don't like smut don't fucking read smut. Okay, bestie? 2.  There is zero smut in this book. Literally zero. Not one sex scene. So... where the fuck is all this gay porn??? I would've loved to see it honestly.  It's funny how a deterrent for some can be an incentive for others huh? There are scenes that have  the potential  to become sexual, but everything is pretty much left to your imagination. Closed-door romance, if you will. I've read a lot of smutty romance, a lot of MM romance, and believe me, this is nothing. So, for the angry Karen who's angrily typing away, trying to find something wrong with this book, please find a better excuse.  I'll even help you out 😉: This book needed to be longer. The ending felt rushed and incomplete. It didn't affect my enjoyment of the book though. On the contrary, I was checking how few pages I had left and it gave me anxiety. I had so many loose ties and ten fucking pages left. The horror.  I could've used a bit more information about Tom. During the whole book, he felt like this otherworldly creature rather than a real person.  I would've loved a bit more melodrama as well (and more gay porn)🤣. There. See? Easy criticism.  Ok I'll stop being an angry Karen myself🤣 On a serious note though, I think the Tom thing was on purpose. We only see Tom through the perspective of others. What other people think of him, how they feel about him, and what they think he wants or feels. We never know his truth. He could hate both protagonists for all we know. I found that simply brilliant.  This book is told in a very clever way. The back and forth from perspectives and timelines was not tiring. Even in all that mess, the story was easy to follow. I loved how it required me to think, how I wasn't told everything at every given point (which, let's face it, made for a pretty good ending overall). I loved how the story starts to fit together slowly, like a puzzle. The characters' voices were distinct from each other and I liked both perspectives. The angst in this book is strong. So many times I felt a knot in my throat.  Loved it.",
   "This book seemed to promise a lot but ended up being merely the same old rehash of themes raised in movies such as 'Making Love'. The policeman (deeply closeted with internalised homophobia' was supposed to be the great love object for the woman and the older gay man - but his character was so unlikeable to me that I could not work out why in heaven's were these two so obsessed by him anyways (apart from his physical assets of course). Of greater reading interest was the dynamic between the wife and the lover ... which was done fairly well but could have been explored so much more - in the end, I felt the policeman himself was almost unnecessary. This book had glowing reviews too - but as a gay reader, I was quite disappointed. ",
   "A quote that really sparked joy  'For a policeman, your very romantic.' 'For an artist, your very afraid.' It's funny how I instantly thought wow I love that whereas someone else will not think it's significant in the slightest. :)",
   " Just finished My Policeman. I'm devastated.. It's beautiful!For Fuck's sake what a sweet poison it was 💔   My Policeman , a gut wrenching, tragic story of three wasted life, confessions and regret with a backdrop of love, betrayal, cowardice and a so called social disgrace in form of Homophobia. Set in 1950s Brighton It's a story about Tom, Marion and Patrick which soon will be adapted into a major motion film starring Harry Styles, David Dawson and Emma Corrin in lead roles.  I instantly became a fan of her writing style, gripping, relatable and fun with an undertone of regret. My first impression was It's so damn relatable. Confession of first love, noticing someone in a different way,an urge to get know that person, spending time together. Doing silly staff like scribbling name and writing page after page about your feelings and a secretive gesture to hide it from the world yet racing in you head to tell everyone about your crush. Such a pleasant dilemma. Been there, experienced that. Somethings are Universal I guess. I saw a hazy image me in Marion, I saw a part of me in Patrick also. For me it was like moulding myself in a fictional environment, living their life, suffering the vulnerability, anguish, self loathing and wrath. Yet each time I encountered the endearment  My Policeman  i was smitten into the story, into their life. Small moments leading to an unspeakable suffering. My policeman is my own death.  Ik many readers did not appreciate the unconventional unoque approach but for it totally worked. Some said they felt betrayed as we did not get Tom's pov but frankly that was the charm of it. I liked the idea of leaving it for reader's imagination that way his story resonates with us even more. Some said author kinda turned it into a misery porn, I Don't agree with that either. I see pure reality at It's core. And the sheer accuracy in picturing Brighton in 1950s, striking brushstoke to create both colorful and ugly side of society, author Behtan Roberts showed some sincere craftsmanship there which I truly appreciate.  I've never felt perplexed at that extend for any other book. It totally clogged my thinking pattern and the paradoxical situation certainly has no certain way out. So They suffered and ultimately let go. It's an exquisite pain, i Don't mind subjecting myself to, and the ambiguity is the cherry on top! Thoroughly impressed. Highly recommended.  It Doesn't happen to me often, but while reading My Policeman literally every situation reminded me of some famous quotes. sharing some of them with you guys 😅   🍁 Marion's POV (part 1)   - “When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls a romance.” - Oscar Wilde    🍁 But there's nothing I can do about all this. I just have to wait for him to come back. That's all I have to do. (Pat's POV ; Chapter 19)   - 'Parting is such sweet sorrow that I shall say goodnight till it be morrow.    Romeo and Juliet     🍁 'Aren't you going to draw me?' His normally pink cheeks were pale and his eyes were stony. (Pat's pov : chpt 21)   - draw me like one of your french girls!(titanic)  .  🍁 'It's just,' I said, moving down to the next but ton and holding it fast, I can't seem to ...' He didn't flinch, or make a sound, so I moved down to the next button: ... stop thinking...' Next button:... about your beauty.' (pat's pov : chpt 24)   -  Oh teach me how should I forget to Think!  (Romeo & Juliet)  .  🍁 Gently he guided two of my fin gers into his open mouth. His lips so hot on that cold day. He sucked and sucked, making me gasp. He is greedy for me, I know it. Just as greedy as I am for him. (Pat's pov : chpt 24)   -  They slipped briskly into an intimacy from which they never recovered.   The Great Gatsby          Instagram     ",
   "This is a difficult novel to rate in terms of stars. On the surface, it is an enjoyable read. Swimming is a key metaphor in the novel and the novel holds together very well as long as one does not dive beneath the surf. The plot is straightforward. Marion falls in love with Tom, her best friend's brother. After a long period of teenage angst she weds the man she desires. But Tom is in love with Patrick, a curator at Brighton Art Gallery. The result is a difficult bisexual triangle. The novel is told through diary entries: Marion's, Patrick's, Marion's, Patrick's, Marion's. Bethan Roberts creates believable characters and the narrative builds through lively exchanges and viewpoints.  My Policeman  suggests the central issue. To whom does Tom really belong? My Policeman  has been criticised from one significant angle: it fails as a LGBT+ novel. But what is a LGBT+ novel exactly? Just to argue that a novel does no work as an LGBT novel is somewhat meaningless. And did  My Policeman  set out to be a LGBT+ novel. Not really, it is a novel with a gay element. So has  Women in Love . Is Lawrence's novel an LGBT+ novel? Hardly. There are, however, major flaws in the conception of the novel. And these connect to how Patrick and Tom are portrayed. Firstly, Patrick's diary entries lack the aesthetic complexity that would issue from a fairly wealthy, Oxford educated gay male. A reader does get the feeling that Roberts has not read much classic gay literature. Secondly, Roberts has not delved deep enough into the mind of Patrick. He is an art curator. So what art would he know in the 1950s relevant to his sexual bias? Craxton? Piper? Vaughan? Maybe the concealed work of Bloomsbury? Roberts has Patrick buy a Glyn Philpot to hang on his wall. Patrick would not have been able to afford a Philpot. Also, Roberts describes the nameless painting -- it is a portrait of a muscular man. Philpot did not paint hunky men. He painted slim males. His most famous paintings are of Black males. The major weakness of the novel, however, stems from how Roberts misunderstands the bisexual triangle. Marjorie Garber's  Vice Versa  is a penetrating study of this arrangement and she observes, by looking at literary/historical precedents, how the power surges through the centre: the man/woman who switches between two lovers. Roberts completely ignores Tom's view of events. He contributes no diary entry. In a sense, she offers a view from two poles without any understanding of the current that passes through Tom. This keeps the novel in the shallows. And much happens there, but it is a severely limiting factor.  Ultimately, this is a novel that brings the 1950s to life. Roberts is good with period details. But more artistic research and psychological understanding would have realised a more accurate novel.",
   "This is well-written and certainly captures the feeling of living in a time and place when homosexuality was illegal and when anyone who didn't avoid any connection with it was liable to pay a heavy price. As a story, it's...fine. It's a perfectly good book. But I felt that there was always something there, just out of reach, something a little deeper, a little more hard-hitting, something that could grab the reader, if only it was said. And that something never really showed up. Not chick-lit, because, well, chick-lit doesn't usually hit this kind of subject-matter. But it does feel a little like chick-lit - which isn't necessarily a bad thing, because every genre has its place. But I wanted something more.",
   "4.5, rounded up. Yes, I only become aware of this due to its 'Soon to be a Major Motion Picture' status [sidenote: has any book ever claimed it was soon to be a MINOR m.p.?], but it was the plotline that drew me in, NOT Mr. Styles (who I don't think I have ever seen perform - if I HAVE, he was totally forgettable). Regardless, I found the book to be an extremely well-done character study - with just the precise amount of period detail and psychological acuity. The book alternates between sections narrated by the two paramours of the titular character - his wife Marion and his male lover Patrick, and Roberts does an excellent job of providing two entirely different styles for each - something that seems to elude most authors who try that methodology. I was invested from the start, and must admit to getting a bit misty eyed at the ending, sentimental fool that I am. Hope the film does it justice. "],
  '_version_': 1748767602372509697},
 {'id': '34066',
  'author': 'Susan Napier',
  'book_format': 'Paperback',
  'description': "Cressida Cross was anything but disciplined,Except when it came to her work as a wildlife photographer. Behind a camera she was utterly dedicated, meeting all her deadlines regardless of the job's difficulties.,So it wasn't surprising that despite the onset of a high fever, she left Auckland determined to reach Coromandel. But it was a disastrous idea--and when Cressy came out of her delirium she found herself at Devlin Connell's country estate.,Unfortunately, she'd interrupted a top-secret meeting and Dev wasn't about to let her loose to spill the beans....",
  'genre': ['Romance',
   'Category Romance',
   'Harlequin',
   'Contemporary Romance',
   'Hqn',
   'Harlequin Presents'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1208431617l/1316643.jpg',
  'isbn': '373114834',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/1316643.Devil_to_Pay',
  'page_count': '187',
  'rating': 3.59,
  'review_count': 20,
  'title': 'Devil to Pay',
  'rating_count': 126,
  'sensitivity': ['grief',
   'war',
   'murder',
   'outing',
   'abandonment',
   'drugs',
   'death',
   'fire',
   'kidnapping'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['widow',
   'sassy',
   'epic',
   'top',
   'cute',
   'flawed',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'famous',
   'recommend',
   'brilliant',
   'delightful',
   'enjoying',
   'hilarious',
   'enjoyable',
   'powerful',
   'extra',
   'funny',
   'important',
   'obsessed',
   'disastrous',
   'shocked',
   'chaotic',
   'interesting',
   'rushed',
   'enjoyed',
   'surprising',
   'sensual',
   'best',
   'fun',
   'great',
   'heart',
   'unpredictable',
   'emotional',
   'banter',
   'dream',
   'bad',
   'loved',
   'angst',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'mesmerizing',
   'common',
   'surprised',
   'angsty',
   'mess',
   'awkward',
   'adore',
   'bothered',
   'captivated',
   'entertaining',
   'sexy',
   'detailed',
   'light',
   'kidnapping',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': ["Re Devil to Pay - Susan Napier takes her shot at a few tropes in this one, she has a clumsy but feisty h paired with an utterly besotted H that has to run hard to catch up.  But the big thing about DtP is that for the first time ever in HPlandia, the lurve connection goes way beyond the missionary position and there are even *gasp* mirrors involved. Yep, SN is going head to head with Miranda Lee and winning by a mile at this point, she skips the purple hues all together and goes straight for scarlet red passion.  This one starts with the h driving through New Zealand from Auckland to the Coromandel. She is going to photograph the newly rediscovered endangered Tusked Weta's of Middle Mercury Island for the New Zealand Department of Conservation.   (Weta's are really big cricket type bugs, and the Tusked Weta's were going extinct on Middle Island at the time this book was written. However the NZDC stepped in and were able to successfully re-establish Tusked Wetas on the other Mercury Islands off the Coromandel peninsula. This is a very, very good thing because as of a few years ago, no more Tusked Wetas could be found on the Middle island. So once again, a valuable piece of world information is relayed to us from HPlandia, now who says we aren't reading these books for the educational lessons?) The only problem the h has is that she is very, very ill with a high fever and when the book opens, she has stripped down to her lacy purple slip, crashed her car in a ditch with the keys locked in it, stormed the H's remote estate electrical gates, gotten shocked and crashed the H's super-seekrit Captain of Industry Summit to save the environment. The H is rather surprised and his staff, including his butler and his Irish male cook, think the h might be on drugs. In her delirium, the h clings to the H, whose nickname is Devil. The h likes people who remind her of animals and Devil the H reminds our out of her mind h of a sexy black panther. The H realizes she is very ill and calls his doctor.  The doctor friend tells the H to keep the h in bed and give her fluids and he leaves some medication. The H wants to ship her off to hospital, but his doctor friend tells him that he is stuck with her. The h wakes up a few days later in a room that strongly resembles a scarlet bordello. (We later find out the H's mum decorated it when she was mad at the H's father for flirting, they all call it the reconciliation room.)  The h is a bit perturbed about the room and strong arguments with the Irish cook and the H ensue. Unfortunately it clashes with her very red hair. Which the H can't tell the color of because it is very muddy and it couldn't be washed because of her illness. He explains that he knows what color her hair is when the h complains about the room, but not from the hair on her head. Leaving the h in a state of outraged mortification. It soon becomes clear that the H has no intention of letting the h leave. Mainly cause of his super seekrit business summit to try and figure out a big business helpful environmental conservation policy and he thinks the h is a reporter. (She isn't, she only does wildlife photography for Nat Geo and the World Wildlife groups, her father is the ace investigative roving reporter.) But also because someone stole the h's car and most of her equipment, except for the camera she was carrying because her dad gave it to her when she was ten.  There is several amusing banter scenes, an escape attempt and one memorable moment where the H won't let the h come down to dinner with the bigwigs cause he claims she has nothing suitable to wear. So the h improvises and wears her lacy purple slip paired with a red lace table cloth she nabbed from a table in the bordello. Flirting ensues and the H has to get all snarly possessive cause he doesn't like the other guys trying to flirt with the h. (Even tho she really isn't trying to flirt, she is just friendly, but she is really attractive and the H is feeling very possessive.)  This H's possessiveness leads to the h being more clumsy than usual, (she keeps breaking things and eventually the Irish cook serves her on plastic plates as kind a running dig,) and the H's little murmured Spanish phrases spike little longings of lust. Passion is simmering nicely between the two of them and the lurve mojo force is strong. The H and h spend a little time getting to know each other and we find out that the h and H are both risk takers, tho the h claims it is really her father who jumps into danger without batting and eye and the H disagrees.   There is lots of bantering and the build up of the sensual tension is getting unbearable for the h, so when the H tries his big seduction move, the h is already wary and has to forcibly yank him back. She figured out a long time ago that she likes a certain type of man who probably isn't good for the long term and after one unsatisfactory relationship that did not end in her being with her One and Only, she isn't going down the physical passion road until she is absolutely sure the man is her ONE. So she kicks the rather presumptuous H in the dangly bits and escapes. Then we find out that the H used to be a big time hunter until his BFF was killed in a hunting accident five years earlier and the H stopped hunting cause he thought about what he was doing and decided he was wrong. The h, who was outraged over the hunting, flips back to compassion when the H admits that he was wrong to hunt and refuses to do it anymore. The tension ramps up between the two of them again after the summit is over and the h stays on for a few more days. She has to remember to JUST SAY NO to the H's wicked temptation, cause the h thinks it is lust and not love and then SN throws the OW into the mix. The OW is the widow of the H's BFF who died when he and the H went hunting. The BFF had stayed behind when the H went out, then he followed and something happened and he ended up shooting himself. By the time the H found him it was too late and the H has been carrying the guilt for that trip ever since. The OW, whom the H slept once with in the aftermath of the BFF's death, has been manipulating the H with his guilt for years.  She implies to the h that her husband's death was the result of adultery and murder by the H and the h and she have a little moment when the OW asks the h why she is being served on plastic instead of china for lunch and the h answers 'homicidal mania'.  The h goes on to explain that she can't be around items that could turned into sharp objects as she can't control her compulsion to kill around them. She grabs the butter plate, breaks it and makes a lunge. Which neatly riposte's the OW attempt to run the h off by making her think the H is a maniac obsessed with the OW, cause now the OW has reason to believe the h is just as murderous as she implied the H was.  The big fireworks actually start later tho, when the drunken H chases the h out of the dining room and the H confesses that he and the OW had a mojo moment and the h is more worried about his drinking and the fact that the OW is telling people that the H murdered his friend to get to the OW. Then she tries to seduce the H, but he rejects her and so the h leaves to go take pictures of Tusked Wetas, the police found her belongings and the h has another rental car. There is a few h mopey moments because by now she is in love, but then the H has his local police friend pull the h over as she is driving back and we finally get to the big H seduction scene after some more verbal bantering. The scarlet passion is intense as SN changes things up and the h gets to be the ravisher, complete with ceiling mirrors, for a true HPlandia first with the lady in charge.  The next morning both the H's mother and father and the h's father descend upon them. The H has declared he and the h are marrying. But after thinking the H's dad is a chauffeur and ordering him to carry her bags out and then backing into the H's parent's car, the h refuses on the grounds that she would rather be the H's mistress, since he can't be bothered to actually propose to her. The H says he will take what he can get and the h knows she loves him and he loves her back and they will end up married and happy with for a big pink and scarlet HEA cause they have already survived 'hostility, suspicion, threats, misunderstandings, arguments, kidnapping, abandonment… more trials than most relationships faced in a whole lifetime.' This one is pretty funny and very fast paced. Give it a go if you like the lighter and feistier type of HPlandia outing, the h is hilarious, the H is pretty entertaining as well and overall this a wild romp on the more scarlet side of the HP universe. ",
   "[She's the widow of his best friend. BF died in a hunting accident that changed the H's life due to guilt. The black widow has been draining the H dry emotionally since. The knowledge that they had a brief affair was a sinker in my stomach as it proved he was just a little too weak. The heroine took it better than I did.  (hide spoiler) ]",
   "Note to self: this is the one where the feverish photographer heroine stumbles upon a top-secret meeting of mining/energy bosses at the hero's remote estate in New Zealand. The hero thinks he has to keep heroine away from the press until Matters Are Resolved with the mining/energy bosses so he does everything to keep her there. Heroine, in her fever dream, thinks the hero is the devil, etc. . .  Once she is well, hero puts the moves on the much younger heroine - who is both reluctant and captivated - sometimes at the same moment. SN has lots of fun with the heroine's clumsiness and the hero's sense of humor.  She throws in an OW at the last moment and their interfering families, but the ending did not match the beginning in intensity. I just don't find SN's humor that funny, I guess. I like her straight-up angsty titles much better. Boogenhagen has all the details in her spoiler review. ",
   "4 1/2 Stars ~ Cressida's brilliant red hair is only a hint of her unpredictable nature. As a world renowned wilflife photographer she's actually quite disciplined; but off duty, she's a turbulent tornado, both with her temper and her distracting clumsiness. On route to her latest shoot at a New Zealand nature park, Cressy is suffering from a virus and is burning up. She takes a wrong turn and ends up driving into a ditch. In her fever, she has a sense of urgency to get to her destination and she abandons the car to seek help. Devlin is shocked to discover the raving and ranting woman trespassing on his property. He thinks she's high as a kite, until he touches her and realizes she's on fire and delirious. Half conscious, to Cressy the man with the jagged scar on his face reminds her of a panther, and someone calls him the Devil, which seems rather fitting because the room she's in is a blazing red. Waking, she realizes her memory is sketchy of the last few days, however, her room is definitely red and resembles a room in a brothel. Devlin doesn't know what to make of the spitfire who stumbled into his home. All he knows is her timing is suspect, he's hosting a summit of industry leaders that he desperately wants to keep out of the press. Learning Cressy is a photographer, and possibly a journalist, forces him to keep her until the meetings conclude. Shaky for several days, Cressy has no choice but to stay, but that doesn't mean she has to give in quietly. At every turn she challenges Devlin, enjoying tremendously getting under his skin. There's something about this woman that brings out Devlin's possessive and protective instincts. He's perplexed as she's not anything like the women he's attracted to, she's all curvaceous while he normally goes for the tall, lean athletic types. She's definitely more trouble than he's ever encountered, and yet, he can't help finding ways to keep her long after the summit ends. The opening chapter is truly delightful and had me chuckling out loud with Cressy's fever induced antics. From the moment Devlin meets her, she challenges him, and keeps him on his toes. Though his nickname of Devil shows he's not a saint, he's not truly the devil either. I really like Devlin and thought he made the perfect hero. He admire's Cressy's bravery and resourcefulness and often finds himself off balance by her impulsiveness. The ending was just as hilarious as the beginning, and I was thoroughly charmed when Cressy made her Devil pay his due. My only beef with Ms. Napier with this book, is where's the epilogue? I just couldn't get enough of these characters and would have loved a glimpse of their future.",
   "Devil to Pay by Susan Napier is one of those books that stands the test of time. First published in 1992, reading this book 28 years later is an experience that is worth your time if you love romances that are interwoven with humor, characters that make you fall in love, and delivers sexual tension and love of the kind that makes your heart hum with pleasure. Cressida Kerr Cross (Cressy) is a photojournalist who is on her way to Whitianga, a nature reserve in New Zealand, in pursuit of a certain breed of insects, the subject matter being one that fascinates her to no end. However, her plans are derailed when she falls sick and finds herself at the residence of 39 year old Devlin Connell (Devil) of whom Cressy is equal doses wary of and drawn towards. When Devlin finds an almost naked Cressy inside his home, he is more suspicious than anything else. Wanting a quiet life, Devlin is someone who does not like fanfare and has a deep rooted distrust, especially when it comes to reporters. One thing leads to another and before long, both Devlin and Cressy finds that their wariness towards each other cannot hide the fact that they are drawn to one another on an intrinsic level that is undeniable. I loved both Devlin and Cressy; Devlin never having taken the tumble towards love and Cressy with an innate need to love and be loved, a hunger that has remained unappeased for far too long. When her life intersects with that of Devlin's there is no turning back for either of them and I reveled in the heady emotions that coursed through me as I indulged in this mesmerizing romance. Through a mix of angst-ridden and often hilarious situations bringing to light the side of Susan Napier as an author that I love and adore, Devil to Pay offers readers a delightful journey towards the happily ever after that is waiting for Devlin and Cressy. I absolutely adored this scrumptious read and would recommend it wholeheartedly to everyone who loves a romance of the good old variety. Final Verdict: Devil to Pay is Susan Napier at her funniest and best. Loved the clumsiness, sexiness, emotional depth, and everything else in between!  Rating = 4.75/5  For more reviews and quotes, please visit   A Maldivian's Passion for Romance ",
   " Cressida Cross was anything but disciplined Except when it came to her work as a wildlife photographer. Behind a camera she was utterly dedicated, meeting all her deadlines regardless of the job's difficulties. So it wasn't surprising that despite the onset of a high fever, she left Auckland determined to reach Coromandel. But it was a disastrous idea--and when Cressy came out of her delirium she found herself at Devlin Connell's country estate. Unfortunately, she'd interrupted a top-secret meeting and Dev wasn't about to let her loose to spill the beans",
   "I've read this little beauty a few times and it's a gem of a book. I loved the h in this and the ever so slightly flawed but smitten H. He loses a bonus point for ever taking part in big game trophy hunting no matter that he has seen the error of his ways. H is a big business type set on saving the environment through industry before he retires and the h is a darn good wildlife photographer. They meet when she is ill and lands on his doorstep during a top secret meeting. Suspecting she is a spy and with a news type background (she has a famous war reporter dad too) he decides to keep her until the secret  bizniz  is conducted.  Our feisty h runs circles round the smitten H giving him lots of hell when he needs it and telling it like it is. she only slopes off when the OW shows up and he cant see what a poisonous cow she is. Not sure about the legalities of how he caught her on the way back would stand up in court especially as he commandeers a police car! But we will overlook this for the epic reunion and his comparison to a stud horse during the love declarations at the end in front of all and sundry.",
   "The book's start didn't work for me and it never got better. In the first chapter, we find our h sick with a fever driving in the remote countryside. She's so hot and feverish, she's stripped down to her slip. Dazed and confused, she walks for miles and breaks into the H's house, storms into a meeting, wreaks havoc, abuses the H who tries to help her and passes out. Cue continued crazy antics from a woman who rudely broke into someone's home. She physically harms the H, the cook, and the doctor. Yes, she had a fever but this is also her sassy,  spicy  character. Her ungrateful attitude leaves much to be desired. She does not thank these strangers for taking care of her. She also is very clumsy and has a tendency to crash into things and break things. I did not find this cute. She said things like  Whoops, broke a vase. Add it to my tab.  The book was chaotic. I give it 2 stars because I would not re-read it or recommend it. ",
   "[ OW invades the hero's territory, where they kiss and he feels guilty about her husbands death. He does shoo her away later but they have a sexual past   (hide spoiler) ]",
   'One star because I finished the book and one extra star because the the last two chapters were funny. Otherwise this was nearly a  did not finish  book. Yes there was a lot of fireworks between the main characters but little else. I found the story hard going. I kept waiting and hoping for it to pick up. It, honestly, felt like I was reading a 300 page book...............it just kept going and going. Usually LOVE Susan Napier books but not this time. Will keep it to add to my Susan Napier Collection though.',
   "A vintage HP that doesn't disappoint! Moderately-paced, dense, emotional, sexy read that makes you laugh, think, and bang your head on occasion. I must say that I was royally ticked off that he slept with the grieving widow, but grief does make one do strange things. Other than that, he was a hero you can actually like and not at all what you entirely expect.",
   "Good, basic older Napier story. I like that she doesn't make her heroes 100% a--holes, unlike a lot of HP authors at the time. It wasn't the fastest-paced romance ever, but I still enjoyed it.",
   "This was an amusing book. The Hero and heroine had great repartee. The heroine gate crashes into the Heroes home, while he is hosting some “giants of industry” for a hush hush meeting. He is suspicious of her, but since she is sick, he takes the chance to keep her in the house so she can recover. The heroine is smart, but the small, cute, clumsy type. The Hero is the strong athletic type, who usually goes for tall slim athletic women, so he doesn't know why he is so attracted to the klutzy heroine. I liked their back and forth banter, especially after the big wigs had left. The heroine can certainly give as good as she gets and she is quite feisty. She didn't give an inch and in the end she had him on her terms! Go girl!",
   'It was hilarious, I should admit, but as a love novel it failed deeply especially where the heroine is concerned. Sometimes, I felt she was a MAN! Enjoyable, but not so believable. ',
   "Cressida, la Trituradora, was taking photos of wildlife when she started to fell very ill. When she arrived to Devlin's house, she was hallucinating from the fever and she imagined that this masculine man was a black panther who wanted devoure her. Two days later, she wake up a little better only to discovered that she was in an awful red room. In that moment, Devlin (who thought she was a journalist) announced to her that she must stay in the house until he had closed an important business agreement. While she stayed at his house, they fall in love but they still didn't trust on each other... This book was so similar to another of this author: Amantes de fin de semana...",
   'She was just too much. She was too over the top. Too hysteric, too clumsy, too crazy, too agressive, too emotional. She was really offputting. ',
   'LOL!!Nice book.Loved the scene  Homicidal mania .good read and recommend it..',
   'Had a few humorous moments.',
   'You know all sitcoms in the 80s/90s did murder mystery episodes? That is this in book form. Nothing make sense or flows into the plot, the characters are inconsistent, just a jumbled mess. Skip.',
   "It was fine, not bad. Lots of wordy dialogues and detailed personality analysis throughout the book by both the H and h. Started feeling a lot like  telling me, not showing me . Not a fan of stories where the H has slept with the OW previously. So one point off for that. The h's clumsiness was over rated IMO and the way the author did an about face and slammed a HEA on us in the last 2 pages felt rushed. The love scenes everyone liked were exagerrated. There was literally just one fade-to-black scene in the whole book. Random eyeing and finger touches don't count.",
   'Lots of twists, lots of confusion: A war of the sexes, typical half-comedy. Full of ups and downs. Fights and arguments, misinterpretations. Clumsy young lady, powerful young man and. scrupulous. A fun read, misinterpreted facts leading the characters to almost never come to common sense. In the end everything is resolved.',
   '3.5 stars',
   "Cressy's awkward clumsiness makes her a great character that any reader would want to see taken care of. When she crashes Devlin's secret summit, such a man is found - though they clash at first. As the two are drawn closer to each other it is interesting to see how they react to each others pasts and what each is willing to do to be with the other. "],
  '_version_': 1748767602854854656},
 {'id': '34146',
  'author': 'Peter Farris',
  'book_format': 'Hardcover',
  'description': "For bank teller Charlie Colquitt, it was just another Saturday. For Hobe Hicklin, an ex-con with nothing to lose, it was just another score. For Hobe's drug-addled, sex-crazed girlfriend, it was just more lust, violence, and drugs. But in this gripping narrative, nothing is as it seems.,Hicklin's first mistake was double-crossing his partners in the Aryan Brotherhood. His second mistake was taking a hostage. But he and Charlie can only hide out for so long in the mountains of north Georgia before the sins of Hicklin's past catch up to them.,Hot on Hicklin's trail are a pair of ruthless Brotherhood soldiers, ready to burn a path of murder and mayhem to get their revenge. GBI Special Agent Sallie Crews and Sheriff Tommy Lang catch the case, themselves no strangers to the evil men are capable of. Soon Crews is making some dangerous connections while for the hard-drinking, despondent Lang, rescuing Charlie Colquitt might be the key to personal salvation.,Prodigious talent Peter Farris has written a backwoods fairy tale of fate and flight that is also a dark, modern thriller. Like the bastard child of Stephen Hunter's ,Dirty White Boys, and Cormac McCarthy's ,No Country for Old Men,, ,Last Call for the Living, is a smashing debut from a writer whose unique and disturbing vision of the world cannot be ignored.",
  'genre': ['Mystery',
   'Crime',
   'Fiction',
   'Thriller',
   'Noir',
   'American',
   'Southern',
   'Gothic',
   'Southern Gothic',
   'Mystery Thriller',
   'Literary Fiction'],
  'cover_img': 'https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1347237428l/13167791.jpg',
  'isbn': '765330075',
  'link': 'https://goodreads.com/book/show/13167791-last-call-for-the-living',
  'page_count': '301',
  'rating': 3.8,
  'review_count': 71,
  'title': 'Last Call for the Living',
  'rating_count': 389,
  'sensitivity': ['rape',
   'murder',
   'violence',
   'drugs',
   'racism',
   'hostages',
   'torture',
   'death',
   'stalking',
   'abuse',
   'snakes',
   'kidnapping',
   'alcohol',
   'blood',
   'alcoholism',
   'prostitution'],
  'pacing': 'fast',
  'buzzwords': ['unique',
   'twisted',
   'ordinary',
   'complex',
   'top',
   'lacking',
   'deep',
   'new',
   'recommend',
   'brutal',
   'hate',
   'fantastic',
   'classic',
   'compelling',
   'favorite',
   'poor',
   'screams',
   'important',
   'lacks',
   'obsessed',
   'modern',
   'gripping',
   'worse',
   'worst',
   'interesting',
   'waste',
   'enjoyed',
   'surprising',
   'surprise',
   'best',
   'great',
   'solid',
   'promising',
   'edgy',
   'heart',
   'twist',
   'bland',
   'special',
   'catalyst',
   'emotional',
   'damaged',
   'shock',
   'spite',
   'tiresome',
   'bad',
   'tea',
   'gothic',
   'loved',
   'wow',
   'disturbing',
   'love',
   'perfect',
   'annoyed',
   'dark',
   'surprised',
   'captivating',
   'torture',
   'witty',
   'cringe',
   'mess',
   'wonderfully',
   'awkward',
   'office',
   'captured',
   'annoying',
   'phenomenal',
   'attention',
   'cliffhanger',
   'unusual',
   'light',
   'forward',
   'kidnapping',
   'worth',
   'better'],
  'mood': ['neutral',
   'fear',
   'surprise',
   'anger',
   'disgust',
   'joy',
   'sadness'],
  'review': ["ANOTHER great literary crime novel! i am on a roll! it's got all the things i like: multiple viewpoints, southern locale, blood splatter, and people down on their luck, but with dreams as big as all the outdoors.  I raised him myself,  she said with particular pride.  He was always a bit peculiar, kept to himself, never had friends except for some kids from the rocket club at school. Charlie wants to build rockets and jet planes, work for Lockhead or NASA one day. I sent him to Space Camp over in Huntsville. He loved it. Just  loved  it. But I never did have the nerve to tell him that some things are just beyond the reach of people like us.   He's an overachiever?  Crews said.  Oh yes. It's just the money, and, well, the scholarship he's on is okay, but that college ain't like the schools rocket scientists graduate from.  but not everyone's dreams are of nasa. hicklin's dreams are more self-serving - to jump the gun and single-handedly pull off a bank robbery intended for three men, keeping all the cash for himself. unfortunately, that leaves two men very pissed off. and even though hicklin does in fact get away with all the money during his robbery, he  has to  kill one bank teller and takes another hostage and is now hiding out in a remote cabin with a horny lady-tweaker and his aspiring rocketeer-hostage. and the good guys and the bad guys would both like a word, please. it's pretty great. relentless and spare with plenty of sympathetic characters as long as you don't get attached. this would be a good match for someone who likes cormac mccarthy, but doesn't like his purty language. no  sluicing  here. but plenty of jailhouse philosophy and a curveball for nature v. nurture, and a lady named kalamity. oh, and snakes. this wins the award for  best snake scene in a book.  (but not a golden globe. everyone knows those are the special olympics of awards, anyway.) definitely recommend, and am definitely sniffing around for farris' next book. i did not win this book through the firstreads program. thought that was worth a mention... come to my blog!",
   "This is a must-read book for those who like their crime fiction dark, violent and unrelenting, populated by characters almost all of whom are lost in one way or another, and very few of whom will be redeemed in the end. Charlie Colquitt comes from an extremely broken home. He's shy, withdrawn, physically unappealing and interested in little more than the model rockets he builds and flys. He supports himself by working as a teller at a small branch bank, and it's his serious misfortune to be on duty early one quiet Saturday morning when a ball-busting, Aryan Brotherhood gang member named Hicklin kicks in the door and robs the bank. Hicklin shoots and kills the manager on duty without a second thought and drags Charlie out of the bank as his hostage. Hicklin drives Charlie to a remote cabin in the Georgia woods and ties him to a chair. Also in residence is Hicklin's girlfriend, a meth addict whose brain has been fried down to the size of a pea. The woman takes pity on Charlie for all the good that will do him. It turns out that the heist had been carefully planned by imprisoned AB gang members. It was to be executed by Hicklin and two equally depraved compatriots. But Hicklin jumps the gun by a week, taking all of the score for himself, apparently in the fantasy that he will use the money to run away to Montana and start a new life. Unsurprisingly, the rest of the gang is not happy.  The thugs that Hicklin betrayed are now hot on his tail, and will deal brutally with anyone who gets in their way. The law, of course, is also after Hicklin, and that includes a county sheriff who's well onto the downward slide into alcohol abuse and irrelevance. What follows from all of this is a gripping tale that will hardly warm your heart but which will certainly command your attention. Peter Farris writes beautifully about some very ugly activity and this debut novel heralds the beginning of a very promising career.",
   "   Cold steel and gun metal grey.     Nightmares, another night has turned to day.    Peter Farris is a new talent to take note of alongside recently Frank Bill and Donald Ray Pollock these writers waste no words and really engage you right from the start. What should have been a usual day at work turns out to be the mark of a pivotal point in a young mans life. A bank teller Charlie a model rocket enthusiast, and a kid that many fathers would be proud to have, finds himself in a three week hostage situation after a bank heist. This is has a fast pace and packs a punch with a motley crew of shady characters. It hooks you with the dieing need to know will Charlie make it through to safety and be of the living? The said bank robber and hostage taker is a man whose earned fear in men, he's part of the Aryan brotherhood, his loyalties have changed since being out of the pen. He finds himself battling wether to keep Charlie alive while on the run or just plain blow his brains away due to one very gut feeling he finds he has about this man. Something kept him from doing the kid in. A twist of fates brought them together so to speak and just how it all pans out and the main protagonist battle with his psyche, his dark passenger, provides a page turning story of break-neck pace. Writing with characters of the darkest of hearts but with one light in the core of this story Charlie. Its visceral with solid prose and all the hallmarks of good writing. A story involving bank heists, ex-cons, the incarcerated, the brotherhood and Kin. A look through the keyhole of the incarcerated, being captive, being without a father and of those that fell through the fabric of society who could have been something else. His writing is in the league of Jim Thompson and Daniel Woodrell in on hell of a debut. We can only expect more fireworks from Peter Farris.    It reminded Lang of the footage captured during earthquakes. Security cameras in a grocery store, a restaurant, an office building. The shaking and the people suddenly look frantic, their day going from zero to pole position in the blink f an eye. That was real terror. Nothing to hold on to, trying to find balance in a situation where theres none to be had.   He began to pace, tiger-walking as if the cottage were a cage. The muscle in Hicklin's forearms and shoulders seemed to pop and writhe with every movement. Charlie watched him, noticig Hicklin's tattoos in greater detail, a few so intricate they seemed like a picture show on flesh, a righteous hatred in the details. He found Hicklins gait strange. The man walked with a swagger, guarded, like a lion stalking the fringes of a pride area. Hicklin turned on the radio, turning to a country station.   Do you know what its like to be watched? I mean really watched. Stared at.  Studied? 'I'm not just talkin' guards and video cameras and such. I mean jobs, paperwork, receipts, bills, insurance claims, doctor visits, taxes, satellites up in the goddamn sky. The all-encompassing gaze. And someones' always watchin' and you don't know when or where or who, but there is no escaping it. I spent twelve years being watched.     Blood in. Blood out.     Heroin. Meth. OxyContin. Cough syrup. Cell phones. Cigarettes. Addresses. Bank accounts. Contracts. Protection. Prostitution. Politics. We play the game because the game is there to be played.    Visit the Peter Farris blog  Here An interview with Peter Farris last year by another awesome writer  John Hornor  @  http://bastardizedversion.blogspot.co.uk/2011/07/why-im-badass-peter-farris.html Read the Authors flash fiction piece  DISNEY NOIR  it has been nominated for  Best Short Story on the Web  by  Spinetingler Magazine.  :  http://www.shotgunhoney.net/2011/04/disney-noir-by-peter-farris.html My review also @  http://more2read.com/review/last-call-for-the-living-by-peter-farris/ ",
   "Quote;  Cold steel and gun metal grey.  Nightmares, another night has turned to day.    Hicklin becomes a member of the Aryan Brotherhood whilst serving 10 years in prison. It's do that or die, raped or constantly victimized by all the other gangs. Still, it's no great adjustment for Hicklin. It turns out the A.B. is well organised and business for them goes on, unimpeded by prison walls. Hicklin and two associates are supplied with all the information they need to rob a small town bank. The A.B. get a kick-back for funding the robbery and supplying all necessary firepower and logistics the three robbers may need. There's just one problem. Hicklin decides he can carry out the robbery on his own and to hell with the Aryan Brotherhood! As well as having two very pissed off associates looking for him, Hicklin murders the bank manager for no apparent reason, other than the pleasure he derives from shedding blood in a spectaculr way and he takes Charlie, a socially inept bank-teller hostage.    Quote;  You win,  Lipscomb said.  Just take me to a hospital... you can push me out the door. I don't care. Just don't leave me like this! I won't say nothin' to nobody! I swear it!   Lipscomb's begging came like a poison chaser. Even with a leg one tug from coming clean off, Hicklin knew Lipscomb could talk his way through anything. A savvy pitch was coming.  You help him and see. He'll roll on you in a heartbeat.  Unless there was a bullet in his head. Hicklin looked around, dancing the tac light off tree trunks and thick nothingness. As if he half-expected to see a bystander frantically dialing the authorities. Kill him.  Maybe.  Then what are my options?   Despite the protests, Hicklin pressed a muddied boot to Lipscomb's thigh, digging the muzzle of the .38 against his uninjured kneecap.  This is worse than any death...  Charlie looked away.  Hicklin pulled the trigger.  I recommend this to any fans of Sothern Gothic, Border Noir, et al.  P.S: On the cover of my kindle copy the cover's blurb compares Last Call for the Living to the most brutal work of Cormac McCarthy and Stephen Hunter. It's a pet hate of mine to read this type of blurb when describing a book. It would make more sense to say 'fans of said authors may enjoy this work', but to compare this book to another author/s is to do all authors concerned a disservice.  Last Call for the Living stands on it's own merits and needs no comparison. But if you happen to BE a fan of those authors mentioned (and i would add Don Winslow), then you may well enjoy this book.",
   "In a hick town in Georgia about the size of a thumb, a larcenous ex-convict, Hicklin, executes a bank robbery. He leaves a blood splattering mess behind and abducts a bank teller on the way out. He double-crosses some other ex-cons and goes into hiding with his frightened hostage at a cabin in the wooded hills, where his crack addled lady friend is embedded. Now the story REALLY begins. The prison-tatted ex-cons are part of the Aryan Brotherhood, a group of loathsome, odiferous men that were loyal to each other behind bars. Now? Not so much. And the poor abductee is a nerd named Charlie who is obsessed with rockets and wants to be an engineer. He's a bit of a reluctant mamma's boy, too. This is a witty, acerbic cat and mouse thriller a la Tarantino/Coen Brothers with a bit of Cormac McCarthy thrown in for good literary measure. (But the body count/pile-up is less than its predecessors.) The cast are a company of tweakers and rank losers--you may want to bathe every few pages. The sheriff is a pitiful drunk, but there's a fifth of him still operating at maximum capacity. The characters are sketched with a compact but fecund economy, enough to provoke some empathy in just the right places and times. The prose is sophisticated, laconic, and periodically elegiac, placing this way above genre-type novels. It is also disturbing, and surprisingly poignant. A few tender themes pop out and grab you by the heartstrings, but it is best to discover it on your own. If you are okay with graphic violence, drugs, and sex, then you will sink your teeth into this one and crunch some bone.",
   "Very interesting premise, very first-novel execution. What I really liked got mired in what was trying too hard and ultimately, it just didn't click. The characters fell flat for me in a way that made the book seem tame, not something that should happen when violence is roiling like electricity. It was very  written , and maybe that's a nebulous kind of distinction to make, and a personal one, but I'm hypersensitive these days to when the writer keeps interjecting over the freight-train story and doesn't just get out of the way. Three stars, possibly, had it not been for the dreams, and also Charlie. By the end I still didn't know who he was, although the very end: that was right on. And well, shit. I hate leaving less-than-enthused reviews for Goodreads authors because they're real people, not a name on a book jacket, and I clicked through to Farris's website and he's reading Rick Bass and listening to Patterson Hood. Goddamnit. Four stars now?",
   "The first seven chapters created a brutal, intriguing, and gritty atmosphere which are needed for a bleak crime thriller, then it hit rock bottom, particularly, in consideration of overabundant italics and needless narration about the lives of the fill-in characters that appeared trivial to the story, and left a room to ponder whether the story would've enhanced if the author kept his focus on telling us more about Charlie Colquitt's life and Hobe Hicklin's motive to double-cross his partners.  Ultimately, failed to accomplish in unfolding the transformation of a beast to human and a human's attempt to resemble the beast. ",
   'A very good debut novel that caught my attention from the very first page. I would definitely recommend it to people who like crime novels. ',
   "I really enjoyed No Country for Old Men when I watched the movie, so when this book was compared to that I thought I'd at least read the first chapter. These are not always my cup of tea. They're gritty, harsh, in-your-face dark thrillers and they don't always appeal to me. But, I gave it a try and was surprised at how much I liked it. You're almost afraid to say you enjoyed it, because it is so disturbing. But, though the story itself is good, it is really the characters that make it hard to put this book down. What the hell will they do next?! You just don't know. It is a complex-character-driven story about an ex-con with nothing to lose, a girl who is as crazed for sex as for drugs, the bank teller lucky enough to live, but not lucky enough to be left behind and the agents on their trail who have problems of their own. When Charlie went to work that day his biggest problem was his over-bearing mother. Now he's a hostage surrounded by ruthless criminals with little hope of escape. But there are things about Charlie that are annoying. It's not like your typical victim you immediately feel sorry for, though you do empathize with him. You want him to live.  The writing is captivating. The characters are captivating. The story is captivating and disturbing in a way that won't let you but the book down.",
   "This was written in 2012 and published in the UK in 2013. Pretty much the same time, maybe a bit earlier, than Wiley Cash's A Land More Kind Than Home.  They share the genre, modern American noir, and they share snake loving pastors and churches. Although Cash's book is superior, the snake scene in Farris's novel is tremendous and will stay with me as one of the great scenes in books. For that reason it's a 5 star novel for me. His writing stumbles sometimes, with a habit of irrelevancies creeping in, but the characters are tough and down to earth, and the story is a proper pageturner.  The best parts, as in much of the new American noir, are the violent scenes.  It's the story of a bank robbery and a kidnapping that, with no surprise, doesn't go according to plan. The Southern US plays its role as it does with his counterpart writers of this genre, Pollock (The Devil All the Time), Cash as I have mentioned, and Cormac McCarthy to mention the best. ",
   "You may also read my review here:  http://www.mybookishways.com/2012/05/... Looking to settle down with a nice, gentle mystery, maybe about quilting, or something along those lines? Well, that's not gonna happen with Last Call For the Living. Not by a longshot. Strap yourself in and get ready for a bumpy ride into the dark, Georgia woods with some of the nastiest characters I've come across in a long time. Young bank teller Charlie Colquitt was opening the bank with his manager on a normal Saturday morning, when hell burst through the door, killing his manager and taking him hostage. Hell, in this case, goes by the name of Hobe Hicklin, member of the Aryan Brotherhood, fresh off a long stretch in prison, and on the run from the partners that he decided to double cross out of the heist, and their take of the cash. Along with his junkie girlfriend, Hummingbird, Hicklin takes Charlie to a cottage in the woods to hide out and catch his breath. This is where things get really rough… All Charlie can think about is going to school and building rockets. Somewhat of a savant, socially awkward, fiercely loved by his damaged and protective mother, Charlie is terrified when he's taken hostage by Hicklin, but in the midst of the abuse that he suffers at the hands of Hicklin (and the pitiful, broken Hummingbird), something else begins to happen. Hicklin isn't sure at all why he took Charlie hostage, but years of crime, prison, scoring quick cash, and doling out the abuse that was also heaped on him as a child have taken their toll, and you can sense the weariness in Hicklin, even if he is akin to a coiled snake, always just about to strike. The law is racing to find Hicklin and Co., in the form of Sheriff Tommy Lang and GBI agent Sallie Crews, but it's not the law he's worried about, it's his former partners, and fellow AB members, that give him pause, because they'll be out for blood (and they give Hicklin a run for his money in the mean department.) Make no mistake, Hobe Hicklin is a nasty, mean, no good son of a bitch, so how in the heck did I start to feel a glimmer of sympathy for this man by the end of this book?? I'm gonna chalk that up to Peter Farris' talent as a writer, and he has plenty of it. I thought I knew where this book was going, and it surprised me at nearly every turn. Speaking of surprises: in addition to the tight, no-nonsense writing and pacing that doesn't let up, there's a scene in this book that I can only describe as awesome (in the classic sense.) I'll just say that it involves a church revival, rattle snakes, and a shoot-out, and leave it at that. It's amazing, and it left me with my jaw hanging open, blinking in shock. This whole book (in particular that scene) just screams “big-screen”, but I digress… It's not for the faint of heart, though, and the terms “gritty”, “visceral”, and “raw” definitely come to mind. If you're looking for a book that will shock you out of your current “book rut”, or a suspense novel that is just straight up made of awesome, look no further than Last Call For the Living!",
   "Coincidence and violence. When combined they create a force that uproots a person's life and sends their know world into chaos. This is what happened to bank teller Charlie Colquitt and Aryan Brotherhood member Hicklin. The abrupt impact of Hicklin's armed bank robbery creates an instinct for improvisation as he takes Charlie as hostage. Deep into the Georgia woods they flee...not from the police...but from other Brotherhood members who Hicklin has double crossed. The tenacious fury of these hunters transcends a cat and mouse plot as their extreme methods of tracking Hicklin and extracting information from bystanders are sure to make the most hardened reader of crime fiction cringe. This is beyond hardboiled. Dark hyperviolence with a southern/gothic elegance to Farris's prose. I hesitate to divulge much more about the plot, characters or context simply because I had picked up the book without reading the back cover's outline. Being caught up in this unknown tale was a rewarding experience and I would encourage others to do the same. Be prepared though! This book is not for those who are repulsed by grotesque images of murder and violence. Last Call for the Living falls into the category of  Wow! I enjoyed this. I wonder what people would think if they found out I enjoyed this?  Farris does have a talent that I would like to mention and emphasize. He can stretch and accelerate time. There are moments when the action flashes by and the reader is caught up in a whirlwind of suspense. There are other moments when the reader is trapped inside a character's mind, experiencing each fleeting moment as circumstance resulting from the previously mentioned coincidence catches up to them. Good stuff.  To all the tough sonsabitches and nitty gritty readers out there, give it a go. I'm talking birds posted to the East and West, don't give a shit don't bother me weekend read. You'll find that it is worth your time.",
   "“Last Call for the Living” is a thriller, but it is also a study of character: of the good guys, the bad guys-and the innocent, such as poor Charlie Colquitt, an unmeaning victim on a date with destiny. In an economically isolated rural area of North Georgia, a lone branch bank remains, the sole business in an otherwise abandoned and vacant strip mall on a back road, far from Interstate traffic. Few customers hold accounts there; the branch mainly services paycheck cashing for mills. Not much of a job, engineering student and social isolate Charlie knows, but it does pay his rent and buy his course texts, and what little's left over goes for his only hobby, model rocketry. Along comes a hard guy with the wrong attitude, an ex-felon who's done twelve years of hard time in various Georgia institutions, and he's doing a bank heist. On a Saturday morning, only two tellers in the branch, and a fresh new delivery from the armored truck: the set-up is perfect, so thinks felon Hicklin-but he isn't figuring on Charlie Colquitt, or the Georgia Bureau of Investigation-or the Aryan Brotherhood. Charlie is not the usual routine individual; and considering what a swamp of trouble Hicklin's about to get into, maybe this is one job he should have just foregone and forgotten.",
   "Author Peter Farris' debut thriller has the literary impact of a 12 gauge shotgun blast in a small room. A relatively simple bank robbery on a quiet Saturday morning deep in rural Georgia goes sideways for young bank teller Charlie Colquitt when he's taken hostage by an ex-con named Hicklin right after he murders the bank manager. Complications develop quickly because Hicklin decided he wanted to keep the entire score and hide out on his home mountain in Jubilation County instead of sharing it with his AB brothers who set up the heist. They want the money and serious payback on Hicklin whose past sins double back on him with surprising consequences. Charlie is a shy young man who just wants to lead a quiet life working at the bank, attending college and building rockets but as a hostage, survival requires him to grow up quickly. Also in pursuit is the burned out County Sheriff Tommy Lang and the very able and interesting GBI Agent Sally Crews in what is definitively not your usual hostage rescue story. All these wonderfully developed characters are metaphorically doing 90 in the back of a pickup truck heading for a bridge abutment. Country Noir at it's best!",
   'A parolee and member of the Aryan Brotherhood (AB), robs a bank solo without waiting for his two partners, grabs a bank teller as a hostage and holes up in the mountains with his meth addict girlfriend. Violent and dark, the police and the AB brothers work to bring him to justice of one type or the other. There is some weirdness around the bank robber, the loner bank teller, who is the highlight of the book, and his mother. If you like Blood Meredian or No Country for Old Men, you will like this; if not, read something else.',
   'One of the best crime novels I have read in the past several years...Peter Farris is the real deal! ',
   "I received an Advanced Read Copy of this book in a Goodreads giveaway. The good first: I couldn't put this book down. I read it in one day. From the minute Hobe Hicklin changes Charlie Colquitt's life forever, to the very end where Charlie begins to live the changes instigated by these events, this book is an attention grabber. It winds through the dark world of the prison system, the Aryan Brotherhood and the stark brutality of stone cold killers who exploit others without guilt or remorse. The juxtaposition of hapless, naive Charlie, thrown into this world by circumstances beyond his control, serves to highlight the amorality of Hicklin and his brothers. The past is deftly woven into the present, deftly telling a backstory that adds to the psychological thrill of the story. Although there are a lot of loose ends left, in my opinion they didn't spoil the basic telling of the story. The brief introduction of the  travel teller,  revealing part of the plot in an interview with GBI Special Agent Crews, doesn't go anywhere beyond that. The purpose of the introduction, apparently, is only to reveal how the scores are set up. The author never reveals why Hicklin jumped the score - kind of an important point, since he knew it would set the Brotherhood against him. Hicklin himself can't explain why he abducted Charlie when he robbed the bank or why he drags him along, keeping him captive for days, in spite of his apparent uselessness in the situation. I really didn't buy the one event that sent Sheriff Lang into a downward spiral of alcoholism that cost him his family and self respect, but felt it was incidental to the story itself - and the story itself was strong enough to carry through the weak points. My favorite part? The buildup to the scene in the church. I could feel the tension, wondering where the story was going, because it seemed unrelated to what was happening with Charlie and Hicklin, but feeling like I was right there in the church with the worshipers and then with Charlie, Hicklin and Lang. This is not a book for the faint-hearted. The author doesn't pull punches with respect to the brutality of the prison system or the Aryan Brotherhood. If you can't tolerate torture, excessive use of drugs, rape, racism, and killing, don't read it. This story details the worst aspects of human nature. I occasionally felt somewhat sick to my stomach, but I kept reading. The characters are very well done. The only character I felt was under developed was Special Agent Crews. Otherwise, the author does a really great job of conveying the nature of the main characters and a couple secondary characters. I felt the changes occurring in Charlie. When he thinks to himself that he wants to kill Hicklin and Hummingbird, I felt connected with him and the changes that were beginning to take place in him as a result of his experience. For Charlie, this is a dark coming-of-age story. Hicklin himself is a dark study in the career criminal. The setting is compelling, as well. Most of it takes place in the remote mountains of Georgia, a wild place that seems beyond the reach of civilization or laws. It's the perfect place for Hicklin to hide out, and the perfect place for many of the events that subsequently take place. OK, the bad... I'm seeing more and more debut novels riddled with incomplete sentences. I'm not quite sure why - I suspect the authors think this style of writing  punches it up.  Or something. I find it gimmicky, annoying and it frequently makes reading difficult. More than once, I had to go back and reread an entire paragraph, piecing together the sentences in my mind, in order to make sense of it. Who decided this gimmick was a great idea? I'm trying to picture writing groups or classes where someone says  if you make entire paragraphs of nothing but incomplete sentences, it really punches it up!  In my opinion, occasional and infrequent use of incomplete sentences may draw attention to a point, or  punch it up.  However, paragraphs of incomplete sentences sprinkled liberally throughout a novel are just tiresome and difficult to follow. There's a reason for grammar and punctuation - it facilitates communication and understanding. I think an author needs to consider whether the gimmick is worth the degradation in communication. Obviously, I was able to overlook it (for the most part) because I finished the book and I enjoyed it - but it still annoyed me throughout. The title: what is the title about? I'm not sure where it comes from, and it doesn't tell me anything about the story. I wouldn't pick up this book based strictly on the title. Last but not least, the price. At the time of this review, this book is available on preorder. The Kindle price is $11.99, the paperback is $13.91. It's typical pricing for a  publisher  novel; i.e., overpriced in my opinion. It's a really good read but if it wasn't available in my local library, I would pass it up for other good reads that are more reasonably priced.",
   "As a lifelong fan of Harry Crews, William Gay and Larry Brown, I have been concerned with who would pick up the torch and carry on after these greats had passed. Having just read Peter Farris's debut novel  Last Call For The Living  I know the futures in good hands. I really dug this book, it's a violent, steam locomotive ride from the first page. I love southern goth & this is definetly one of the best I've read in awhile. The book is fast paced and full of engaging characters. You will want to read it in one sitting, but it was so good that I purposely did not rush through it in order to savor it. The book begins with a cold blooded bank robbery & after that it's touch and go till the end. Anybody who can write a scene involving snake handling gone bad like Peter can, is someone to be watched & followed in the future. Start here with LCFTL & then go pick up Frank Wheeler Jr's  WOWZER, Frank Bills  CRIMES IN SOUTHERN INDIANA ,Jake Hinkson's  HELL ON CHURCH STREET , Benjamin Whitmer's  PIKE, and finally Donald Ray Pollocks  DEVIL ALL THE TIME ...along with Peter, these are the new voices of Southern Goth at its best.",
   'very nice 1st novel of crime and police procedural, with some nice twists, like primitive baptists having a snake handling/strychnine drinking service and then bad guy hides in amongst the congregation and the suffering bent sheriff comes in and a huge ass gun battle slash snake biting ensues. yeah, so lots of prison info and that angle of the con world running crime syndicates outside the walls. so lots of unique things here, beautifully written and quite exciting and very violent. 4 STARS . reminds me a lot of  billy bean   The Baptism of Billy Bean: A Novel  and  the other shoe   The Other Shoe: A Novel',
   "yes yes yes!  Dark, twisted, Love it.  Charlie is a naive bank teller. He goes to work on Saturday, just like every other Saturday. Only this isn't just an ordinary Saturday. The bank Charlie works at robbed, his co worker murdered, and Charlie is taken hostage by career criminal Hobe Hinklin.  While reading this book, I wasn't sure gow to rate it. 4 stars? Then there it was.. about 3/4 of the way through the book- the 5th star. The charecter development in this story was superb. You will hate Hobe for what he has done. You will want him to die, you will rage against him.. until the author tells his story. This story isn't   pretty . The ending has a cliffhanger that is left unanswered, It doesn't get packaged up with wrapping paper and a pretty bow. But that is what I love about this book, its grittiness, it doesn't need to please. Can't wait to read more from this author.",
   "Completely blown away! LAST CALL FOR THE LIVING by @PJFarris - phenomenal. Cannot believe this is his first book. Rural noir at it's best!!! This is going to be a tough one to follow up. I have read about 60 books in 2013. This book and Donnybrook by Frank Bill are at the top of my list. Highly recommended.",
   "A criminal thriller set in the rural South of north Georgia that explores violence, family, longing and belonging among people the future has no use for. Fast-paced from the beginning, the book reads like a combination of 'No Country for Old Men', 'In Cold Blood' and 'American History X'. ",
   "In Last Call For the Living by Peter Farris, Charlie Colquitt is a modern-day milquetoast, fond of rockets and a steady schedule of day-to-day sameness while working as a bank teller at a local small-town bank in Georgia. Hobe Hicklin is a White supremacist former convict, tasked by The Brand, AKA The Aryan Brotherhood, to rob banks with other members to supplement income for The Brand's organization.  Hicklin, a man of no known redeeming qualities and quick to utilize violence, decides to rob Colquitt's bank without the others and after the violent robbery, takes the docile Colquitt along as a hostage. Hicklin then drags Colquitt to a decrepit hideout to lie low along with Hicklin's methamphetamine-addicted girlfriend  Hummingbird.   Because Hicklin has gone against the orders of The Brand and has apparently fled with the money for himself and Hummingbird, not only is Hicklin being hunted by authorities, but also other violent members of The Brand, and to The Brand, any form of non-conformity only has one result: a violent death.  Joining in the chase, aided by more capable investigators, is Sheriff Tommy Lang, a weary and world-worn man that needs and enjoys the drink too much while ruminating on his own failures as a family man. Lang knows he is in a pursuit beyond his skillset and has come to the belief that safely freeing Colquitt may lead to his own salvation.  Last Call for the Living is more than a mere hunt and pursuit crime novel, with Farris developing each character and plotline with depth and layers. The novel is with violent depictions and language some may find offensive but language that is genuine to the characters involved. Last Call For The Living is recommended to those that enjoy crime novels, with a touch of rural noir and bleak characters. ",
   "Fresh out of prison after a long stretch, what's the first thing up on ex-con Hobe Hicklin's 'To Do' list? Rob his hometown North Georgia Savings and Loan, of course. In and out in under 3 minutes with the cash, as robberies go this one goes pretty smoothly. Well, except for killing the bank manager. Probably shouldn't have taken the teller hostage either. Oh, and considering the job was planned with his fellow Aryan Brotherhood members while he was inside, Hicklin probably should have waited for them instead of jumping the score. Now not only does Hicklin have local Sheriff Tommy Lang and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation on his ass, he has some very seriously pissed off Brotherhood members gunning for him as well. On top of which, Hicklin's got to juggle his tweaking junkie girlfriend, Hummingbird, and that skittish mama's boy of a teller, Charlie Colquitt. Come to think of it, maybe that score didn't go so smoothly after all. And it's a good thing for readers it didn't, because author Peter Farris's debut Last Call for the Living is an intensely engaging exploration of the aftermath of a robbery which initially seems to have gone right, only to be revealed as having gone gloriously wrong in virtually every way possible. On the surface things unfold as a classic fugitive in hiding tale, with the twist of Hicklin being wanted by not just the law but his former “brothers” as well. And given what nasty pieces of work the two thugs the Brotherhood sends after Hicklin are, there's a good argument to be made he'd be better off in the hands of the law. Except, of course, Hicklin has no plans of going back to prison. Ever. Which makes Hicklin an extremely motivated and dangerous man, one who flashbacks to his time in prison demonstrate is every bit the ruthless, coldblooded killer as the two on his trail. What raises Last Call for the Living head and shoulders above your standard shoot 'em up, however, is the masterful attention to character development Farris has put into the story. For a man prone to extreme violence and hateful, racist language, Hicklin is actually so well developed - the prison flashbacks graphically explain why a man has no choice but to make alliances, even distasteful ones, inside to survive - that the reader finds himself actually caring about the character, even if you don't exactly like him per se. This is especially true when it comes to Hicklin's unusual attachment to his hostage, Charlie. A nerdy, awkward, introverted young man, Charlie goes through life on autopilot with only his love of rockets dreams of getting a degree and working at NASA to keep him going. Initially overwhelmed by the situation - he pisses himself when the bank's robbed and later faints dead away while at the hideout - Charlie slowly finds himself inexplicably drawn in by Hicklin, whose hardened and confident personality represent everything Charlie is not. It's a relationship Farris nurtures and develops over the course of the story, leading Charlie, Hicklin, and the reader down a path which ultimately ends in both triumph and tragedy. You see, despite all the fisticuffs and shootouts, and there is a spectacular one which takes place amongst the parishioners at a snake handling church, Last Call for the Living is at heart a character driven story, one which isn't afraid to look at the dark side of human nature and explore evil as shades of gray and not an unyielding pitch-black. It's a novel that recognizes sometimes a man actually wins by losing, least if it's on his terms, and that even when one wins it can sometimes feel like a loss. Triumph and tragedy; they're more closely linked than most people realize. Peter Farris certainly gets it, and if you read his amazingly nuanced Last Call for the Living you will too. ",
   "This book is like an onion. A violent onion. There's no backdrop here except the mountains. No one is a minor character. In each layer, each person is the center of his or her own story. They all have their own motives, their own reasons and fears, their own skin only they can inhabit. As such, no matter how intertwined they become, no matter what alliances - formal or otherwise - they make, in the end, they all stand alone. Last Call for the Living is not the kind of uplifting, feel-good book you shut with satisfaction. It's peopled with the disparate, desperate parts of humanity squeezed together, plucked and pulled, mined for the best and worst of themselves and pushed to their limits. Even those left standing are changed - no so much for the better or worse as much as forever. Like the line in that song from Wicked, they can't say if they've been changed for the better, but they've been changed for good. The catalyst is a bank robbery, planned by prisoners, by members of the Aryan Brotherhood, assisted by informants and gang members, and executed on the wrong day by the wrong person. Into the maelstrom go tellers and managers, mothers and neighbors, local and state law enforcement, victims and hostages, drug addicts and bar owners, church goers and criminals. Oh, and snakes. A whole lot of snakes. (Note: If you have snake issues, you might want to read this only in the mornings, with the lights on.) It's the resulting collision course that makes up the plot of the book. It's dark and twisted and raw. And it's fantastic. Pros: Well-written, fast-paced, it's a helluva good book. Terrific characterization that should satisfy all but the haughtiest of the literary set and the right about of double-crosses and shootouts to keep crime genre fans sated. Pretty cover, too. Cons: It's violent and profane and realistically depressing. If you're already lacking faith in humankind, this won't likely make you feel differently. It also feature characters, who, while realistically portrayed, are racist and sadistic and hateful.  Bottom Line: If you can handle the imagery and language and don't need a happy, fairy-tale ending, pick this one up and read it already.",
   "Peter Farris comes out blasting with a real scorcher here, hard to believe it's a debut novel. Starts with a bank robbery and, as you know, mostly losers rob banks these days, not exactly the heroic desperado move it used to be, and the gunman takes a hostage, a fat slobby geek who digs rockets and has a one-eyed mom, all in the first couple dozen pages. Then it turns out that this bank robber has jumped the gun on the heist, grabbing all the honey before his amigos, both ex cons, like him, and it's one of a series of jobs carefully planned by the old guys still in the joint, and there's about to be a sort of apocalyptic hoedown between prison gangs, etc. And all that happens before the shoot out in church that happens in the middle of a snake handlers revival. This is wild stuff. Kudos, Peter Farris, you are one hardboiled dude. Looking forward to what comes next.",
   "Hard to believe this is a debut Novel. The best Bank heist novel I have maybe ever read. This ain't your daddy's crime novel. It takes an otherwise bland genre and injects it with a needle full of holy Fu*k. I would love to see this turned into a movie, but then again I would cringe to think Micheal Bay would ruin this gem for everyone who didn't read it. If you have the intestinal fortitude to read a legit novel that isn't politically correct, but 100% accurate of how things really are, this is the one. Graphic violence, rape, torture, cruelty to animals, snakes and bugs, and racist dialogue and none of it over shadows the story, or is thrown in just to be edgy, it all fits and all comes together. Will be looking forward to future Farris ventures. ",
   " He was smarter than this and he knew it.  This line in the books sums up most of the characters in this book pretty well. The book is chock full of characters that keep doing things they know better than to do, and paying for it. It's hard to not compare this book to  Dirty White Boys' by Stephen Hunter. The parallels are too obvious. It manages to hold up pretty well though in that comparison. While it lacks the wit and occasional humor of Hunter's book, it makes up for it with deeper character relationships. The evolving relationship of Hicklin and Charlie is fantastic to read. Peter Farris also has a way with words when it comes to violence/action.  An extremely good first novel, will definitely read whatever he writes next.",
   "   It was a great read. The only problem I had was the whole father/son garbage. It was an attempt to add an emotional aspect to the story that wasn't needed. I would have rather heard more about what caused Hicklen to jump the score in the first place. Overall, I still enjoyed the characters as well as the action. SNAKES!!!",
   'Great novel but lags at the end.'],
  '_version_': 1748767603059326976}]